Title: Light And Easy Indoor Picnics #2
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
Light Summer Supper
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MMMMM----------------------------MENU---------------------------------
Chilled Summer Squash Soup
-with Fresh Herbs
Cold Salmon Baked In Foil With Light Watercress Sauce Crusty French
Bread Cloud Brownies Iced Fruited Tea This Chilled Summer Squash Soup
should be served from a thermos into mugs. It is prepared with
low-fat buttermilk which gives the feeling of richness without added
fats. The soup utilizes both the yellow and zucchini squash that are
so abundant in the summer months. Remember to taste the soup after it
has been chilled because the cold diminishes the flavor of the soup.
I like to tote along a sealed baggie of fresh herbs to add at the
last minute for color and flavor. And take along a loaf of crusty
French or Italian bread ++ and don't forget your little bread cutting
board and bread knife. For those who really want an easy picnic,
substitute rolls for the bread. The salmon is cooked easily without a
poacher by actually sealing in foil packets and baking at high
temperature. The packets can be chilled and carried to the picnic and
then served. The sauce can be toted to the picnic in a small plastic
container with an accompanying serving spoon. An interesting
historical note about salmon is that the early Native Americans held
the salmon in very high regard, and their superstitions prevented
certain tribe members from handling or eating the fish ++ they did
not want to anger its spirit and have it disappear from their waters.
Perhaps the Chief was just a little squeamish baiting the hook, but I
could be wrong. I happen to love brownies ++ but they are very high
in fat. I have made some big concessions with these Cloud Brownies by
substituting a fruit puree for the fat, but the results are still
quite moist and flavorful. The brownies will make you good and
thirsty on a hot summer's eve so I have added some Fruited Iced Tea.
Simply steep a bunch of herbal teas ++ cranberry, raspberry, orange,
lemon ++together and chill. When chilled, add some sliced oranges and
lemons  and frozen strawberries, pack in a thermos, and take to the
picnic.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   05-23-95

