Title: Light And Easy Indoor Picnics #7
Categories: Information
Yield: 6 servings
Buttermilk Baked Chicken
========================
MMMMM-------------------------SERVES: 6------------------------------
Instead of using a rich egg or cream batter,chicken in this recipe is
dipped in whole wheat flour, buttermilk-egg batter, and then
unsweetened cereal crumbs to make a wonderfully crispy hot baked
chicken, or cold picnic chicken. INGREDIENTS: 1/2 cup whole wheat
flour 2 eggs, lightly beaten 1/2 cup buttermilk 1 tablespoon
grainy-style Dijon mustard 2 cups crushed unsweetened whole-grain
cereal, (I use Nutri GrainWheat or Corn flakes) 1 teaspoon paprika
Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 12 chicken thighs, washed and
patted dry on paper towels 1-2 tablespoons. diced unsalted butter or
unsalted margarine GARNISH: Sprigs of parsley, red and yellow cherry
tomatoes (optional) PREPARATION: 1. Preheat the oven to 425F.
Generously coat a roasting pan with vegetable cooking spray. 2.
Measure the flour onto a plate. Mix the eggs with the buttermilk and
mustard and whisk until smooth. Place the crumbs on another plate and
season with paprika and salt and pepper. 3. Dip the chicken in the
flour; coat well and shake off the excess. Dip the chicken in the egg
mixture and then into the cereal crumbs, pressing to make sure the
crumbs adhere. 4. Place in the prepared pan, dot with the butter or
margarine, and bake for 25-30 minutes, or until crispy, without
turning. 5. Serve hot or at room temperature garnished with parsley
sprigs. VARIATIONS: A whole chicken, cut-up, or even chicken breasts
alone can be substituted for the chicken thighs. Whole-grain bread
crumbs can be substituted for cereal crumbs. COOKING NOTE: Cereal
crumbs can easily be prepared in a food processor or blender. Fresh
Berry Sauce ================= [Yield: 1 cup] Use strawberries,
raspberries, blackberries or boysenberries (or a combination of
berries) for this incredibly easy sauce that can bepoured over fresh
berries or low-fat cake at a picnic or sorbet or frozen yogurt at
home. INGREDIENTS: 1 pint berries 2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice 1-2
teaspoons sugar or to taste ACCOMPANIMENTS: Mixed fresh berries and
low-fat pound cakeGarnish: Mint sprigs PREPARATION: 1. Wash and drain
the berries. Place them in a food processor orblender and process
until smooth. 2. Add the lemon juice and sugar and process until well
combined, pulsing on and off and tasting for sweetness. 3. Pour the
sauce over a mixture of fresh berries or low-fat pound cake and serve
with fresh mint sprigs on the side.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On    5-23-95

