Title: Light And Easy Indoor Picnics #5
Categories: Information
Yield: 6 servings  Cold Salmon Baked In Foil With Light Watercress Sauce
=====================================================

In this recipe the salmon is easily poached by baking in foil
packets.The traditional watercress sauce which is laden with cream is
replacedy a light one prepared with low-fat yogurt. 4 6-ounce salmon
steaks 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/4 pound mushrooms, wiped
clean, sliced 8 teaspoons lemon juice Salt and freshly Ground Pepper
to taste SAUCE: 1/2 cup watercress leaves, firmly packed 1/4 cup
parsley leaves, firmly packed 1/4 cup chives, finely chopped or
scallion greens 1 tablespoon fresh dill sprigs 1 cup plain non-fat or
low-fat yogurt 2 tablespoons reduced-calorie mayonnaise 1 1/2
tablespoons lemon juice Salt and freshly ground white pepper to taste
GARNISH: Lemon wedges and watercress leaves. PREPARATION: 1. Preheat
the oven to 450F. Cut four pieces of aluminum foil into 16" squares.
2. Place each salmon steak on the prepared foil. Top each with 1
tablespoon of the parsley. Distribute the mushrooms over each, top
with 2 teaspoons of the lemon juice, and finally a sprinkling of salt
and pepper. 3. Seal the packages of foil shut tightly, place on a
baking sheet, and bake for about 15-20 minutes, or until the fish
flakes. Cool and chill for 6 hours or overnight. 4. To prepare the
sauce: Chop the watercress, parsley, chives, and dill in a food
processor or blender. Place in a bowl, add the remaining ingredients
and stir together until well-mixed. Place in a covered container and
chill until ready to use. 5. If taking to a picnic, tote the packets
as is and serve them withthe sauce on the side. If serving at home,
remove the salmon from the foil and serve on a platter surrounded by
lemon wedges and watercress leaves, with the sauce on the side.
VARIATION: Halibut steaks may be substituted for salmon.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On    5-23-95

