Title: Lite Muffins with Variations^
Categories: Muffins, Breads, Low cal/fat, Healthy
Yield: 12 servings
2 c  Flour
1/2 c  Sugar
3 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
3/4 c  Milk
3 tb Oil
1    Egg, beaten
Carolyn Shaw 6-95
Fast & Healthy 9/92
Heat oven to 400F. Line muffin tin with muffin papers. Lightly spoon
flour into measuring cup; level off. In bowl, combine flour, sugar,
baking powder and salt; mix well. In bowl, combine milk, oil and egg;
blend well. Add to dry ingredients; stir just long enough to moisten.
Divide evenly among muffin cups. Bake 18-23 minutes or until light
golden brown. cool 1 minute; remove from pan. serve warm.

Microwave directions: Prepare batter as directed. Using a 6 cup
microwave safe muffin pan, line each cup with 2 paper cups to absorb
moisture. Fill 2/3 full. Microwave on high 1 minute. rotate pan 1/2
turn. Microwave on high 1-1 1/2 minutes or until a toothpick tests
clean. Remove from pan immediately and discard outer baking cups.
Repeat with remaining batter.

High Altitude: Above 3500 feet: Decrease sugar to 1/4 cup. Bake as
directed.

Per muffin: 150 calories, 3 g protein, 25 g carbohydrate, 1 g fiber,
4 g fat (24%), 19 mg cholesterol, 180 mg sodium, 50 mg potassium, 1
starch, 1/2 fruit and 1 fat exchange.

Variations:

Apple: Decrease sugar to 1/4 cup and add 1 teaspoon cinnamon to
flour. Stir in 1 cup finely chopped peeled apple to dry ingredients.
Substitute apple juice for milk.

Blueberry: Stir 1 cup fresh or frozen blueberries and 1 teaspoon
grated lemon or orange peel into dry ingredients.

Chocolate Chip: Add 3/4 c mini chocolate chips to dry ingredients.
Before baking, sprinkle tops of muffins with a mixture of 3
tablespoons sugar nad 2 tablespoons brown sugar.

Jam: Before baking, place 1/2 teaspoon of your favorite jam on
muffings; press into batter. If desired, sprinkle with finely chopped
nuts.

Lemon: Add 1 tablespoon grated lemon peel to dry ingredients.

Orange: Add 1 tablespoon grated orange peel to dry ingredients and
substitute orange juice for milk.

Streusel-Topped: Combine 1/4 c firmly packed brown sugar, 1 tablespoon
softened butter, 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon and 1/4 cup chopped nuts or
coconut; blend with fork until crumbly. Sprinkle over muffins before
baking.

Sugar Coated: Brush tops of hot muffins with orange juice; dip in a
mixture of 1/4 cup sugar nad 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon.

Whole-Wheat: Use 1 cup whole wheat and 1 cup all purpose flour.
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   06-13-95

