Title: Seafood Buying Guide
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  Fresh or Thawed Whole Fish ~ shiny, bright and metallic skin, with
tight adhered scales ~ bright, clear and full eyes, with black pupil
and transparent corneas ~ bright red or pink gills, with little
visible mucous or slime ~ firm flesh that is elastic to the touch ~
complete evisceration, well-rinsed and clean ~ a fresh "seaweedy"
odor, but no strong or "fishy" odors Fresh or Thawed Fillet and
Steaks ~ fresh mild "seaweedy" odor ~ firm, elastic and moist flesh
with almost translucent color ~ clean, carefully executed trimming,
boning, and skinning ~ no bruising, blood spots or browning Smoked
Fish ~ bright, glossy appearance ~ firm texture ~ no signs of mold,
dried blood or salt crystals ~ clean, smoky odor Live Lobster, Crab
and Crayfish ~ cold and sluggish, but showing some leg movement ~
shells are clean without dark blotches or cracks ~ lobster tail curls
under body when picked up ~ weight seems heavy for size Live Oysters,
Clams and Mussels ~ shells that are hard, unbroken and reasonable
clean ~ shells tightly closed or close when touched (soft shell clams
can't completely close, but the shells and the "necks" will show some
movement) ~ the bottom shells of oysters should be deeply cupped
Fresh-Shucked Oysters ~ meats are plump and immersed in their liquor
(natural juice) ~ liquor should be clear or slightly opalescent
(slightly milky) but not cloudy or gritty ~ meat color is creamy ~ no
strong odors Fresh or Thawed Scallop Meats ~ firm and slightly
translucent meats ~ color is creamy white, to tan, to pinkish ~
strong, but sweet and briny odor Fresh or Thawed Shrimp ~ firm flesh
completely filling shell ~ no blackened edges or black spots on
shells ~ shell and flesh should not feel slippery ~ no strong odors
Fresh or Thawed Squid ~ very firm flesh ~ no tears in skin ~ skin is
cream colored with purple to reddish-brown spots ~ yellowing and
pinkish colorations are signs of aging Cooked Lobster, Crab or Shrimp
~ bright red shells ~ meat should be moist ~ no strong odors ~ picked
lobster meat is snowy white with red tints ~ crab meat is white with
red or brown tints ~ shrimp meat is white with red or pink tints
Surimi Seafood ~ moist and firm ~ meat is opaque with an off-white
color ~ the meat's surface should have red or pink, shellfish-colored
tints ~ no strong or unpleasant odors Frozen Seafood ~ solidly frozen
with glossy surfaces ~ no signs of frost on seafood or package
interior ~ flesh is evenly colored with no white patches (signs of
drying) or orange coloration (signs of rancidity) ~ packaging is
undamaged with no signs of thawing and refreezing (package still as
original shape, no frost on the inside) ~ no strong or unpleasant
odors

Simply Seafood Spring 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-19-95

