Title: Whole Wheat Challah
Categories: Breads, Jewish
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------WHOLE WHEAT CHALLAH-------------------------
Try making a challah with whole wheat flour for a change. Your family
will love it. 8 c Whole Wheat Flour; sifted 2 c Warm Water 2 ea
Compressed Yeast Cakes or 2 pk Dry Yeast 1/2 c Honey or 3/4 cup
Brown/White Sugar 2 ea Eggs; well beaten 1/2 c Oil 1 tb Salt GLAZE: 1
ea Egg Yolk beaten with 1 tb Water x  Sesame or Poppy Seeds Put 7
cups of flour in a large mixing bowl. Make a well, and pour 1 cup of
warm water into it. Crumble yeast and 1 tablespoon of the honey into
the well. Let stand for 5-10 minutes until it foams. With your
fingers, work yeast mixture into flour. Add honey, egg and salt, and
mix by hand or with electric egg beater. Gradually add more water ++
a little at a time ++ beating well after each addition. Dough wil be
sticky. Knead dough for 10 minutes, adding remaining flour. Place in
a greased bowl, turn, and cover with a towel. Let rise in a warm
place until doubled in bulk. (Optional: Punch down, cover, and allow
to rise until double ++ about 1 1/2 hours). Punch down again and
divide dough into three parts. Braid into loaves. Place each loaf on
a well-greased baking sheet. Cover and let rise for 1 1/2 hours.
Brush with glaze. Sprinkle with sesame or poppy seeds. Bake in a
preheated 350F oven for 45 minutes until golden brown. Yields 3
challahs. VARIATION: Substitute white flour for part of whole wheat
flour. If half white flour is used, add 1/8 cup more water. From:
Classic Kosher Cooking by Sara Finkel (1989) ISBN 0-944070-14-0
Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   05-22-95

