Title: ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS 4 B
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
Text
TOPPINGS: A variety of toppings can be added to the bagel before
baking, either directly to the dough after settling, or after the
bagel is glazed. Poppy seeds, sesame seeds, caraway seeds and coarse
salt are easiest to use because they can be placed in a dish directly
from the jar, and the bagel can be dipped into the dish; the seeds
adhere to the moist dough. Or they can be sprinkled on top of the
bagels just before baking, and pressed down lightly to adhere. I've
seen bagels with sparse toppings and those that are covered from top
to bottom. There's no right or wrong way.

Add 1/2 cup finely chopped, saut√©ed onions to the tops of the bagels.

Add 1/2 cup finely chopped raw onions to the tops of the bagels; they
will cook right along with the bagels.

Use dehydrated onion flakes or packaged onion soup that you have
reconstituted with water, olive oil, or vegetable oil. Use 1 tbs. dry
product to 1/2 tbs. water or oil, and soak for 2 to 3 minutes.

Mix together 1/2 cup chopped yellow onions, 1 green onion (white part
only), 2 tsp. olive oil, 2 tsp. poppy seeds.

Sprinkle with garlic salt, finely chopped fresh garlic or garlic
flakes.

For the "Everything Bagel" (see recipe), combine 1/2 cup finely
chopped onions, 1 clove garlic, finely chopped, and 1/4 cup sesame
seeds. Sprinkle mixture on bagel tops before baking.

Use ground caraway or whole caraway seeds. These are particularly
good on rye bagels. They can be combined with the topping for the
"everything bagel".

Sprinkle with red pepper flakes, adjusting the "heat" to your liking.

Top with mixed fresh herbs, including parsley, chives and dill.

Dip into or distribute about 1/4 cup coarse salt or kosher salt on
top of 1 batch of bagels just before baking.

Poppy, caraway, sesame and celery seeds can be used directly from the
jar. Just dip the bagels into a dish of seeds or sprinkle seeds on
top.

Toasting nuts before using them on (and in) bagels enhances their
flavor. Walnuts, almonds, pecans or hazelnuts can be used on bagels
as toppings and also added to the dough at the beginning or before
they are shaped and rise the second time.

Sprinkle with rolled oats or multigrain cereal, which will brown while
baking.

Proceed to Step 6: Baking

CONTINUED IN ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS 5

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach

ISBN 1-55867-131-5

Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

