Title: HOW TO MAKE JERKY
Categories: Techniques, Preserving, Meats, Dehydrating
Yield: 1 Technique
Info
Like other dried foods, meat jerky--tough, leathery strips of dried
meat--was a staple for pioneers and "mountain men" in times past.
Today, beef jerky is still a favorite among backpackers, skiers and
campers--and a popular snack for armchair sports fans, too. Modern
jerky is prepared in an electric dehydrator or oven; sun drying, the
technique favored in pioneer days, presents too great a risk of
spoilage or contamination.

Turkey-breast jerky compared to jerky made with trimmed beef flank
steak, it has less fat.  It also has a more brittle texture, since
poultry is fairly fibrous.

If you like, you can prepared beef jerky with game instead--but it
you do, freeze the meat before drying for at least 30 days or at zero
degrees as a precaution against disease.

The leaner the meat you use for jerky, the better:  a lower fat
content means a longer shelf life.  As a first step for any jerky,
trim and discard all visible fat and connective tissue from the meat;
partially freeze it (to make slicing easier), then cut it into thin
(1/8- to 1/4-inch-thick) strips about 1 inch wide. Cut with the grain
if you like a chewy jerky, across the grain if you prefer a more
tender, brittle product.

Properly dried beef or game jerky should crack, but not break, when
bent; turkey jerky, however, will crack and break.

Once the jerky has been dried, let it cool; then pack it in a rigid
freezer container or plastic freezer bag and freeze for 72 hours at
zero degrees. Then store it in an airtight, insectproof container for
up to 3 weeks in a cool, dark, dry place.  Or, to maintain flavor and
prolong shelf life, refrigerate or freeze.

Source:  Sunset Home Canning

