Title: HOW TO DRY PUREE & FRUIT LEATHER
Categories: Snacks, Fruits
Yield: 1 Servings
2 c  Fruit puree
Line a cookie sheet (12 x 17 inches) with plastic wrap. This size
cookie sheet holds approximately 2 cups of puree. Spread puree or
fruit leather evenly over the plastic but do not push it completely
to the sides. Leave a bit of plastic showing for easy removal. Place
on a card table or picnic table in the hot sun to dry. If the plastic
is bigger than the cookie sheet and extends up the sides, anchor it
with clothes pins so it will not flop down and cover the edges of the
leather. Puree should dry in the sun six to eight hours. The heat of
the sun and the humidity make drying time variable. Puree and fruit
leather may be dried in an oven set at 140 degrees (F). Too high a
heat will disintegrate the plastic. Leave the oven door ajar so
moisture can escape. It takes about six hours in the oven. It can
also be placed in the back window of a car and dried. Leave the car
windows open about 1 inch. To make sure the fruit leather is
completely dried, pull from the plastic wrap or touch to see if the
fruit leather is "tacky." Purees without sugar will be much drier and
more brittle. If it is not completely dry it will mold during
storage. When the fruit leather becomes too dry, it will crack and
crumble and won't roll, but is still good to eat....call it "fruit
chips." STORING PUREE AND FRUIT LEATHER Roll fruit leather loosely in
plastic wrap and store in the cupboard. To store puree without sugar
for other uses, break it into small pieces and store in plastic bags
in a dry, cool place or in the freezer. Rose hip powder may be made
by crushing dried puree with a rolling pin until it is fine enough to
suit you. This may be stored in small jars in a cool, dry place. It
is good to sprinkle over cereal and to include in hot cakes and other
dishes.

