Title: Sauces To Go with Moroccan Couscous
Categories: Sauces
Yield: 1 servings
------------------------SWEET ONION AND RAISIN SAUCE------------------------
2 ts Cinnamon
1 ts Pepper
1 c  Sugar or honey
2    Small, hot fresh peppers
1/3 c  Butter
1 c  Raisins
Start this at least 1 hour before serving so that it can get a mahogany
color.  Saute onions in butter, stirring frequently, until they soften and
turn golden. Add other ingredients and cook and stir, letting mixture
almost burn on the bottom a few times before stirring it up. In this way it
will be a lovely, dark brown. Hot Sauce: Remove 2 or 3 ladles of broth to
small saucepan about 20 min. before serving and simmer with whole hot
peppers. I have not tried these receipes but they do sound good. Later I
will post some of my couscous receipes. Also want to prepare and also post
a receipe for beef brochettes. Gary, if you are reading this I doubt if we
could ever duplicate the Moroccan cooking. The country and the atmosphere
had a lot to do with the flavor of the food. Hope you don't mind someone
else adding their 2 cents. My husband was stationed in Morocco from
1970-72.  The Couscous postings brought back wonderful memories. In fact,
thanks to Gary's posting my husband and I bought a steamer. Now, all I have
to do is purchase some cheesecloth so the couscous does not fall through
the holes. I also dug out my old Morocccan cookbook, COOKING IN MOROCCO by
the American Women's Association of Rabat. Lots of Coucous receipes, but
none calling for harissa.  Did find 2 receipes for sauces to be served with
couscous. Carolyn in Asheville

