Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Breads #10
Categories: Information, Fruit, Bread
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free by Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

Breads (cont'd): ****************

Your bread is done when it easily slips out of the loaf pans; has a
deep, rich-coloured crust; feels firm to the touch when you gently
squeeze the long sides of the loaf; and resounds with a hollow sound
when you tap on the bottom of the loaf. Rolls are done when they are
golden brown on their tops and slightly more golden brown on their
bottoms.

Place the hot loaves or rolls onto a wire rack for cooling. Be sure
to let the bread or rolls cool completely before wrapping them. And,
if you can wait, it is much easier to cut fresh bread after it has
cooled completely. For best results, use either a serrated knife or
an electric knife to slice bread.

Some breads, like French bread, are best if served hot from th eoven
or on the same day they are baked. Other breads such as egg bread and
whole wheat, keep well for a number of days. Most breads freeze well.
However, they are best eatene reheated from the oven or as toast, as
they freezing process tends to dry them out.

Baker's Tips: ************* Activating the yeast with a little
sweetener and warm water from the recipe before adding it to the
other ingredients is very important ifyou are uncertain about the
freshness of your yeast. If the yeast fails to become bubbly and
fragrant after five minutes and you know that your liquid was not too
warm to have killed the yeast, then you ahve saved yourself from
making a brick. Begin again with different, fresher, and hopefully,
more active yeast.

The rising process for bread can be slowed down considerably by
placing the dough in the refrigerator overnight. Weight down the
dough, which is still in its lightly oiled bowl and covered with
plastic wrap, by placing a couple of heavy cans directly on the
plastic wrap. Until the dough has chilled all the way through, it
will continue to be active, so it will be necessary to punch the
dough down once or twice during the first few hours in the
refrigerator. The next day when you are able to work with the dough
again, remove the dough from the refrigerator at least a couple of
hours before you ar ready to begin. Remove the weights and let the
dough return to room temperature to reactivate the yeast before you
start to work with it.
Submitted By JANE KNOX   On   09-30-94

