Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Whole Wheat Cinnamon Bread
Categories: Bread, Fruit
Yield: 2 loaves
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
2 T  Dry baker's yeast
3    Eggs
1 T  Salt
5 c  Whole wheat flour
2 c  Raisins
7/8 c  Hot raisin water
7/8 c  Cool water
1/4 c  Fruit sweetener
1/4 c  Oil
MMMMM-----------------------CINNAMON SWIRL----------------------------
1 1/2 T  Cinnamon
1/4 c  Fruit sweetener
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Softened butter
Begin by plumping the raisins and preparing the raisin water. Bring 2
cups of water to a boil in a small pan. Add 2 cups of raisins and
turn off the heat, letting the raisins sit in the water for at least
10 minutes. Drain the raisins, saving the raisin water.

To prepare the dough by machine: ********************************
Measure the hot raisin water and combine it with the cool water so
that the mixture is lukewarm. Pour it into the bowl of your electric
mixer. Add the fruit sweetener, oil, yeast, eggs, and salt. Stir in 5
cups of the whole wheat flour. On the lowest speed, use the dough
hook to form a medium soft dough. Once the flour is incorporated,
increase the mixer speed to medium and knead the dough for 5-10
minutes, adding only enough additional flour to form a medium stiff
dough that comes off both the sides and bottom of the bowl. Reduce
the speed to low, and gently knead in the plumped raisins.

To prepare the dough by hand: ***************************** Combine
1/4 cup of the hot raisin water with 1 tablespoon fo the fruit
sweetener in a small bowl. When the mixture is lukewarm, stir in the
yeast. Set the bowl aside until the yeast is bubbly, about five
minutes. Meanwhile, mix together the remaining 10 tablespoons of
raisin water, the cool water, the remaining 1 tablespoon fruit
sweetener, oil, eggs and salt. Stir in the activated yeast and 5 cups
of the whole wheat flour to form a medium soft dough. Sprinkle a
little flour on your work surface. Knad the dough, adding only enough
additional flour to keep the dough from sticking. After 10 minutes of
kneading, gently knead in the plumped raisins. Continue to knead the
dough for another 5 minutes until it becomes smooth and quite elastic.

Raising the dough and forming the loaves:
***************************************** Place the well kneaded
dough in a lightly oiled bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and
let the dough rise in a warm, draft free place until doubled in size.
Remove the plastic from the bowl and using your fist, gently deflat
the dough by punching it down. Knead the dough in the bowl about 10
times. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and again let the dough rise
until doubled. Punch the dough down and turn it out onto a very
lightly floured surface. Divide the dough into the number and size of
loaves you want to make. Using a rolling pin to roll each portion of
dough into a square 1/3 inch thick. Combine the cinnamon swirl
ingredients in a small bowl or cup, stirring with a fork until the
cinnamon is totally mixed with the fruit sweetener. Use a pastry
brush to spread the cinnamon mixture thickly onto each square of
dough. Roll each square up tightly, jelly roll fashion, pinching the
bottom seam and side edges well to seal each loaf. Place the finished
loaves in lightly oiled bread pans. Cover the pans lightly with a
piece of oiled plastic, and let the loaves rise until they are about
1-1/2 inches above the top of the pans.

To Bake the loaves: ******************* Preheat the oven to 350
degrees. Place the loaves on the middle shelf of the oven. Bake the
large loaves for 45-60 minutes, and the smaller loaves for 30-45
minutes. The tops will be a rich brown, and the bread will slide
easily from the baking pan when the loaves are done. Give the bottom
of the loaf a tap. It should sound hollow. When the loaves have
finished baking, rub their tops with softened butter to tenderize the
crust and add shine and flavour. Place the finished loaves on a wire
rack to cool. Submitted By JANE KNOX   On   09-30-94

