Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Breads #6
Categories: Information, Fruit, Bread
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free By Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

Raising the Dough: ****************** Let the dough rest a moment
while you lightly oil a bowl large enough to allow the dough to rise
to double its size. Place your dough in the bowl and turn the dough
over, so that the top is lightly oiled. Cover the bowl with plastic
wrap and place the bowl in a warm, draft-free place. As yeast is
susceptible to sudden drafts that could deflate the dough, it is
often suggested to put dough to rise in an oven with a pilot light.

The dough is ready when it has doubled in size. The time needed for
this first rising is quite variable; it may take from 45 minutes to 2
hours depending upon the amount of yeast in the recipe in proportion
to the flour and the temperature of the area where the dough is
rising. Rather than giving you an exact time, I will tell you what to
look for so your bread dough itself will be your guide. Do, however,
check the dough's progress after 45 minutes. A good test is to poke
it gently with your forefinger. If the space begins to fill back in,
cover the dough and let it rise longer. If the space does not fill
back in, the dough is perfect and ready for its next step. If the
dough collapses when you poke it, it has risen too long and must be
worked with immediately. When the dough as over-risen, the resulting
bread may be dry, coarse in texture, and heavy, but still suitable
for bread pudding or croutons.

Punching the Dough Down: ************************ When the dough has
doubled, remove the plastic wrap and lightly punch the center of the
dough with your fist. This is called "punching the dough down". Now
knead the dough 8 to 10 times in the mixing bowl. If you are going to
give the dough a double rise, cover it again with plastic wrap and
place it in the same warm, draft-free spot. This rise will take about
half as long as the first rise. Test the dough for readiness after 25
minutes with the same poking test. Punch the dough down again.
Submitted By JANE KNOX   On   09-30-94

