Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Breads #5
Categories: Information, Fruit, Bread
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free By Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

By Machine: *********** It is very important that you have a heavy
duty mixer with a strong motor if you are going to prepare dough with
it. Read the manuacturer's instructions before you begin. The
instructions tell you the maximum amount of flour that your machine's
motor is capable of handling. This is very important to the life of
your mixer.

You may prefer to activate the yeast first, as described in the
section on preparing yeasted dough by hand, and then add the
dissolved yeast to the lukewarm liquids in the mixing bowl, along
with the flour and salt.

The alternative is to place the liquids in the mixing bowl of your
electric mixer. On the lowest speed, use the dough hook to mix the
liquids. When they are lukewarm, stir in the undissolved yeast, then
the flour and salt to form a soft dough. Note: This method should be
used only when you know that your yeast is fresh.

With either method of working with the yeast, increase, the mixer
speed to medium, and knead in additional flour until the dough forms
itself into a ball that comes off both the sides and bottom of the
bowl.

Raising, Shaping, and Baking the Bread:
*************************************** The remaining steps of bread
making are the same whether you have kneaded your dough by hand or by
machine. Submitted By JANE KNOX   On   09-30-94

