Title: Imambaldi
Categories: Middle east, Vegetable, Curries, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
No Ingredients Found
Our friend Russell Bennett created this recipe as his interpretation
of this popular Middle Eastern dish, and we have adapted his recipe
to fit in with the yeast free living diet.  IMAMBALDI has a legend to
go along with its exotic flavor.  A sultan invited a priest to
dinner, but neglected to tell his wife.  She scurried into the
kitchen on the guest's arrival, and blend all her leftovers together
to creat a dish that the priest loved. They drank and ate for hours.
Then, to the host's surprise, the priest fainted! Hence the name
"IMAMBALDI", which translated to " the priest has fainted".  When he
revived, he sputtered that the reason he had fainted was that he was
overwhelmed withhow wonderful the dinner had been! Serves 4-6 2 large
eggplants 1/2 cup olive oil 1 large onion, chopped 1 cloves fresh
garlic, minced, or 1/2 tsp bottled 2 tbsp minced fresh parsley 1
large tomato, chopped 1 tbsp curry powder 1/4 tsp freshly ground
pepper

Preheat oven to 375F.  Cut eggplant into 2 inch thick round (about 3
per eggplant).  Scoop out pulp and reserve, leaving a 2/3 inch thick
cuplike shell.  Set aside.  Finely chope eggplant pulp.  Set aside.
Heat 2 tbsp of the oil in large skillet.  Add onion and garlic, and
stir fry 2 minutes. Add chopped eggplant, parsley, tomato, curry
powder and pepper. Stir fry 3 minutes.  REmove from heat.  Place
remaining oil in a large baking pan. With your fingers, rub oil over
each eggplant cup. Place cups face up in the baking pan.  Fill cups
with chopped eggplant mixture. Cover pan with foil.  Bake in oven 30
minutes, covered, then 15 minutes, uncovered. Remove from oven, pour
off excess oil, and let cool. Can be served warm or cold. Origin:
Yeast Free Living. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Oct/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-13-94

