Title: Patties
Categories: Main dish, Indian
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 ts Salt
25 ml Lemon tuice
225 g  Flour
40 g  Butter
1    Egg
Filling: 225 g beef 50 g onion 2 green chillies 1 cardamom I clove I
tomato 100 g boiled potato 75 ml oil sprig curry leaves 1/4 teaspoon
salt 1/4 teaspoon black pepper I teaspoon coriander I teaspoon chilli
powder 1/2 teaspoon cumin I teaspoon vinegar juice 1/2 lime 50 ml
thick coconut milk 1 litre oil

Sift  the  flour into  a  bowl  and rub  in  the  butter. Separate
the egg and add the yolk to the flour along with the salt and lemon
juice. Mix in sufficient water to make a stiff dough, knead well and
put on one side for 30 minutes. Mince the beef, chop the onion and
chilli, crush the cardamom and clove, dice the tomato and cube the
potato. Heat the oil, add the onion and curry leaves and fry until
the onion turns light brown. Add minced beef,  chilli,  cardamom,
clove salt pepper, coriander powder, chilli powder, cumin vinegar and
stir fry for 5 minutes. Add the tomato and potato and cook for a
further 3 minutes.

Pour in the coconut milk, bring to the boil and simmer for 5 minutes
Add lime juice. Remove from the heat and allow to cool slightly. Roll
out the pastry on a lightly floured board and, using a pastry cutter,
cut circles in the dough  Beat the egg white. Place a little beef
mixture in the centre of each pastry circle, apply the beaten egg
white to the edges and fold patty in two. Seal the edges and deep fry
until golden brown. Drain well. From: "A taste of Sri Lanka" by Indra
Jayasekera, ISBN 962 224 010 0

