Title: Satueed Fillet of Turbot..
Categories: Seafood, Fish, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: THE NATIONAL CULINAR---------------------
Hartmut Handke
Sauteed fillet of turbot with brown butter and capers with fingerling
potato salad. 4 6-ounce turbot fillets 6 ounces butter 8 drops white
Worcestershire sauce Juice of 1 lemon 4 tablespoons all-purpose flour
Salt and pepper to taste Fingerling potato salad: 1 pound fingerling
potatoes, sliced 1/16-inch thick 1 pint chicken stock 1/4 cup white
wine vinegar 1/4 cup olive oil 2 tablespoons chives, short cut 1
tablespoon shallots, fine diced Salt and pepper to taste Method:
Marinate turbot fillets with white Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice
and salt and pepper at least 1 hour before cooking. Potato salad -
Cook sliced fingerling potatoes in chicken stock until done. Remove
potatoes from cooking liquid and reserve. Reduce cooking liquid by
1/2.  Remove from heat and whisk in white wine vinegar, olive oil,
chives and shallots.  Season with salt and pepper. Return cooked
fingerling potatoes to this marinade. Fish - At service time, put 4
ounces butter in a hot skillet.  Dust turbot fillets with flour and
saute quickly on both sides until done. Place 1 cooked turbot fillet
in center of the plate.  Arrange fingerling potato salad around it.
Lightly brown 2 ounces butter in skillet. Add capers and some lemon
juice. Spoon over turbot fillet.  Place pile of deep-fried sweet
potato chiffonade at 12 o'clock on plate. Hartmut Handke, CMC, AAC,
is the 1993 ACF National Chef of the Year, the 1992 ACF Chef
Professionalism winner, winner of the 1993 National Game & Game Fish
Cook-off, the 1993 Certified Angus Beef National Culinary Competition
and the 1993 Tyson Cornish Hen Recipe Cook Off. All of Handke's
recipes featured here serve four.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   10-14-94

