Title: Turkish Food Delight
Categories: Turkey, Vegetable
Yield: 1 servings
-THE SKINNY:
Here are a few refreshing recipes based on Turkish cooking, which
make use of yogurt, olive oil and eggplant. Of course the yogurt in
Turkey is of superb quality and taste. We like to use Perth County
Yogurt, which is sold primarily on health food stores.

AYRAN: (DRINK) ***** 1 c Cold Water (or ice water) 1 c Yogurt 1/4 ts
Salt

Add ingredients to blender or mixing bowl and whip together. Store in
refrigerator if not drunk immediately.

CACIK ***** 1 md Cucumber 3/4 ts Salt; or to taste 2 c Yogurt; plain
1/2 c Milk 1 ea Garlic Clove; peeled and mashed to a pulp in a mortar
1 tb Olive Oil; fruity

Peel the cucumber. Cut it in half lengthwise and scrape out the all
the seeds with a grapefruit spoon. Now cut the cucumber into 1/4 inch
dice. Sprinkle with 1/4 teaspoon salt and set aside for half an hour.
Squeeze out as much moisture as you can. Put the yogurt in a bowl.
Beat with a fork or whisk until it is smooth and creamy. Slowly add
milk, beating as you do so. Add the cucumbers to the ypgurt along
with the remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, garlic and olive oil. Mix well
and chill until ready to serve.

PATLICAN: ******** 1 ea Eggplant (about 1 lb.) 1 ts Salt 1 tb Lemon
Juice; fresh 1 tb Olive Oil * Turkish Yogurt Dressing (recipe follows)

* (More may be needed, as egg[lant tends to readily absorb oil)

Slice eggplant into 1/2 inch rounds. Peeling off the skin first is
optional. Put slices in a colander and sprinkle with salt, first on
one side and then on the other. Leave slices for 1/2 hour, then shake
off liquid in a colander. Heat oil in a frying pan and add eggplant
pieces, frying each on a medium heat until they are soft and reddish.
Remove pieces to a serving dish, sprinkle with lemon juice and chill.
Later, serve it topped with yogurt dressing.

TURKISH YOGURT DRESSING

Date: 09-26-94
From: Sam Lefkowitz

