Title: Yeast Free Meat Tamales
Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Meat
Yield: 60 servings
No Ingredients Found
This recipe comes from the kitchen of Maria Arrizon.  She is a
wonderful cook and has a personality to match!  She has given us many
Mexican recipes and has filled our tummies with fabulous food. This
recipe makes the perfect amount for hungry guests at a Mexican
fiesta.  But don't worry ++ if you don't have an army to feed, these
tamales freeze well. We are sure you will enjoy them! Makes 60-65
tamales %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% MEAT FILLING  %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% 6-1/2 lb meat (chicken, beef, pork, or
combo) 1-1/2 cups water 3 oz chili pasilla (???) is this a pepper?? 3
cloves fresh garlic, minced, or 1-1/2 tsp bottled salt to taste

Place meat and 1 cup water in a 5 quart pot, bring to a boil, and
cook meat until tender.  Drain and reserve the broth for dough.  Cool
meat and shred. Meanwhile, boil chili pasilla in 1/2 cup water for 30
minutes. When done, carefully remove seeds and discard.  Place chili,
water in which it was cooked, and garlic in a blender.  Blend 2
minutes. In a pan, mix chili mixture with shredded meat and salt.
Stir fry mixture 3 minutes, set aside. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%%
DOUGH %%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% 10 lb corn dough (masa harina -
bought at your local Mexican food store) 2 lb lard, melted 6 tbsp
baking powder salt to taste 4 tbsp red chili powder (WOW!!) 1/2 cup
reserved broth, or more if necessary to make dough moist and
spreadable 2-3 packages corn husks (can be found in most grocery
stores) Place dough in a large bowl.  Make a medium sized hole in the
center of the dough.  Place melted lard, baking powder, salt, chili
powder and broth in hole.  Beat well until the dough mixture is a
moist, spreading consistency. Place 2-1/2 large spoonfuls of dough
mixture on each corn husk, spreading evenly.  Place about 3 tbsp of
meat filling on the dough. Roll husk up lengthwise, and fold in half.
Place folded tamales on steamer rack over boiling water; cover.  Cook
over medium heat for 1-1/2 hours, or until done.  Serve. Origin:
Yeast Free Living. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Oct/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-13-94

