Title: CUPBOARD COSMETICS
Categories: Mixes
Yield: 1 Servings
See Directions Page
1. peach pits and honey smooth rough hands.Simply grind two pits into
powder and mix with 1 T homey. apply to hands and leave on for 30
minutes 2. Eggs and mayonaise make even the most damaged hair silky
again. Whip one egg and 1/4 cup mayo together. Work through hair.
Cover and leave on overnight 3. Chestnuts and honey banish ungly
wrinkles. Gring the inner skids of several chestnuts into powder and
mix them with 2 T honey. Apply to your face before going to bed and
leave on over night 4. Oatmeal is an all over skin smoother. Grind 2
cups oatmeal to a powder in your food blender and rub on your body
while in the shower. You'll come out feeling soft and smooth, 5.
Used tea bags will make unsightly bags beneath the eyes disappear.
The tannic acid reduces pufiness 6. brewers yeast will draw toxins
and impurities from your skin. Mix a 1/2 cu of yeast with 2 teaspoons
of witch hazel. Add enough water to form a paste. Leave on face for
10 minutes. Rinse with hot water  7. Cider vinegar or red wine
vinegar will soothe parched, dry skin when you add a cup to your
bathwater and soak. 8.  Milk is a great face moisturizer.  Apply with
a washcloth, leave on for 10 minutes and then rinse. 9. Olive oil
removes makeup 10 Olive oil controls dandruff. Just massage into
scalp an hour before shampooing. 11. Petroleum jelly, slathered on
your hands and feet and covered with gloves and socks, will leaveyour
skin as smooth as silk 12. Toothpaste fights pimples overnight.  Dot
onto blemishes before going to bed. Wash off in the morning. Pat
Dwigans

:
Recipe By

