Title: DAVID VANO'S CAESAR SALAD
Categories: Salads
see dir page
Yield: 1 Servings  :

I have made my own caeser salad for over 20 years. I learned it from a
friend and I have made a few changes that have improved it. I order
caesar salad when I see it on the menu and to be honest, mine is the
best. Start with a medium head of romaine lettuce. Holding head
firmly, cut 1/2" off botton and then cut entire head in 1" slices.
Put in cold water. Let sit while preparing dressing.In a very large
wooden bowl add the following: 3" strip of anchovie paste; 1 coddled
egg (a must); the juice of 1/2 lemon; 4 T balsamic vineger; 5 T olive
oil (I do not use extra virgin because it does not have the taste;
the less expensive, more pressed olive oil is my choice); 1-2 cloves
or garlic pressed; 1/2 t seasoned salt; 1 T Lea and Perrin; Tobasco
to taste, 4-5 drops; 2-3 T parmasean cheese fresh grated (never out
of a box); your favorite croutons. Start with the garlic and anchovy
paste. Mix in bowl with all liquids; add remaining ingredients; put
in croutons to let sit in liquid for a few seconds. Thoroughly dry
lettuce (use spinner if you have one) and put in bowl. Toss until all
lettuce is coated. Add fresh groung pepper (I like a lot) and a few
more croutons. Serve immediately. Offer more pepper. Please note that
you cannot make this ahead; it will be no good in 1-2 hours. Also, if
you do not eat all salad throw out remaining. Romane lettuce gets
very bitter and cannot be left over.
David Vano

:
Recipe By

