Title: PIROHY (PIROGI)
Categories: Ethnic, Main dish
Yield: 4 Servings
1 c  Flour
1/2 ts Salt
1 ea Egg
4 tb Cold water
Mix all ingredients with enough water to make a soft dough. After
kneading well, roll out thin. Cut dough into about 60 squares. On
each square, place 1 teaspoon of filling. Fold in half to make
triangles. Pinch edges together, making sure this is done well to
keep filling from escaping. Carefully drop in salted boiling water
and cook until all pirohy rise to the top of the water and cook for 5
minutes longer. Carefully strain. Place in serving dish and pour over
golden brown butter. On top of this, if you are serving the panske
pirohy with the lekvar filling, sprinkle nuts and sugar. If you are
serving them "po liptovsky", (these are filled with potato and dill
filling) sprinkle some cottage cheese on top. Some prefer a little
onion fried in butter until golden brown and this is poured over the
kind that have the potato filling. Cheese Filling: 1/2 cup dry
cottage cheese, 1 egg yolk, a bit of lemon rind, and sugar to taste.
Combine ingredients and mix thoroughly. Potato Filling: 1 large
potato cooked and mashed. A little fresh or dried dill, 1 egg yolk,
salt and pepper to taste. Mix throughly. Cabbage Filling: 1 lb. head
of cabbage chopped fine, to which add 1 teaspoon salt and set aside
to stand for several minutes. Then squeeze out water from cabbage and
fry in 1 tablespoon butter that has been browned. Add 1 teaspoon
sugar. Fry until golden brown, stirring occasionally to keep from
burning.

