Title: COOKING ARTICHOKES
Categories: Low fat, Vegetarian
Yield: 1 Servings
None
Choose nice firm artichokes that are not turning brown or looking
dry. (I like to serve one artichoke per person.) Cut off the stems
even with the bottom of the artichokes. Cut about an inch off of the
top of the artichokes-straight across the tops of the leaves. Using a
pot that's large enough to accomodate the chokes in a single layer,
arrange artichokes in bottom of pot. Add water to a depth of 1 to 2
inches. Bring water to a boil and turn down heat so that the water
remains at a low simmer. Cover pot and cook for 45 minutes. Check
occasionally to be sure the water is not boiling away, and add more
if necessary.  The test for doneness is to pull out a leaf.  If it
comes away from the artichoke easily, it's done. Serve on a plate
with a small bowl of dipping sauce. To eat artichokes, pull off
individual leaves, dip in sauce, and scrape leaf between teeth to
remove the soft pulp near the bottom of the leaf. The remainder of
the leaf is discarded.  As you get near the center, the leaves become
tenderer and a greater portion of each leaf is edible. When you are
near the center, remove any remaining leaves, and you'll see a fuzzy
thing called a choke. This is not edible.  Scrape it off with a knife
or spoon and discard. Under the choke is the heart which many think
is the best part of an artichoke (though I kind of like the leaves
better myself). The heart is completely edible.  Cut it up and dip
the pieces in the sauce.

Information provided by Deborah Kirwan. Converted to MM by Donna
Webster Donna@webster.demon.co.uk Submitted By
DONNA@WEBSTER.DEMON.CO.UK On TUE, 31 OCT 1995 151630 GMT

