Title: EDEN OILS & VINEGARS
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 Info  TRADITIONALLY MADE OILS ======================= EDEN offers two
traditionally made toasted sesame oils. They reflect the finest
ingredients and processing. Unrefined and expeller processed, they
have the full color and flavor of sesame.  Using a slow screw press
ensures low temperture extraction, protecting the natural vitamin E
that guards against oxidation. Filtering through vegetable quality
filters removes small particles while maintaining flavor and
nutrients. A nitrogen flush when bottling preserves freshness by
driving off oxygen than can cause oxidative damage.

TOASTED SESAME OIL - EDEN Toasted Sesame Oil is made by gently
pressing whole seeds that have been dry-roasted to release their oil.
Its distinctive flavor and aroma is commonly a part of oriental
cooking. Toasted Sesame Oil is also known as 'oriental oil' or
'Chinese oil' in recipes, and some writers refer to it as 'dark'
sesame oil. This delicious and nutritious oil complements any grain,
pasta, or vegetable, and will add pleasing character to your sauces
and dressings.

Ingredients: Toasted Sesame Oil Sizes: 5 or 10 ounce glass

******************************************************* *************

HOT PEPPER SESAME OIL - EDEN Hot Pepper Sesame Oil is a fiery hot
combination of toasted sesame oil and red chili peppers. Whole red
chili peppers release their essential oil when steeped in toasted
sesame oil, producing a strong but balanced 'heat' in this specialty
condiment/cooking oil.  Use in sautes, sauces or dressings for a
zesty heat.

Ingredients: Toasted Sesame Oil, Red Chili Peppers Sizes: 5 or 10
ounce glass

******************************************************* **************

SPECIALTY VINEGARS Unrefined ============================ EDEN Brown
Rice Vinegar and Ume Plum Vinegar are delicious condiments made the
traditional way, as they have been for centuries, with meticulous
care, 'the best' being the only goal. Natural fementation of whole
foods is acheived without the addition of modern additives.  Lightly
filtered only through cotton cloth to retain full flavor and
nourishment.

BROWN RICE VINEGAR - EDEN Brown Rice Vinegar is made by artisans from
whole grain rice and pure well water. Through a slow and laborious
maturing process it mellows and sweetens naturally in unglazed
earthenware vats. This exceptional vinegar experiences seasonal
changes for three years in a climate perfectly suited to and
necessary for its production. It is surprisingly sweet and smooth
unlike most types of vinegar. It is the vinegar of choice for sushi -
'sushi' literally translates to 'vinegar rice'.

Ingredients: Water, Brown Rice Sizes: 5 or 10 ounce glass

******************************************************* **************

UME VINEGAR - EDEN Ume Plum Vinegar begins with a rare variety of plum
appreciated for the remarkable properties embodied in PlumBalls (TM)
and umeboshi. This vinegar is created as umeboshi (pickled plums) are
made. Fresh plums are rotated from shiso (beefsteak leaves) bring to
sun drying, then back to the brine over and over, creating this
flavorful vinegar. Shiso leaves gives it its red color; its tart
flavor is from the organic acid rich ume plum. Technically a brine,
but always called vinegar because of its tartness, this condiment
sparks salads, dips, and dressing with its healthful character.

Ingredients: Water, Ume Plum, Shiso (beefsteak leaf) and Sea Salt
Sizes: 5 or 10 ounce glass

Copyright 1995 Eden Foods, Inc. <Electronic format courtesy of Karen
Mintzias>

