Title: Putting Up Your Preserves
Categories: Preserve
Yield: 1 servings
See below
Use 8oz glass jars with two part tops, (lids with screw bands), to store
the cooked jams and preserves.  Select one or two cup glass or rigid
plastic containers with tight-fitting lids for no cook freezer jams and
preserves. Wash the jars and glasses with screw bands in an automatic
dishwasher with very hot rinse water, keep hot until ready to use or wash
with hot, soapy water and rinse very thoroughly. Place the jars and glasses
upside down in a large saucepan filled with water and bring to boiling and
boil for 10 minutes. Keep them hot. Was two-part lids in the automatic
dishwasher with very hot rinse water again, keeping them hot until ready to
use or wash in hot soapy water and rinse well. Place in a small saucepan
filled with water and bring to a boil. Remove them from the water but keep
them hot until ready to use. Fill the jars to within 1/4-inch for the
cooked jams and 1/2-inch for the no cook freezer jams. Using a plastic
knife or spatula, make sure there are no air bubbles in the jam. Wipe the
jar rims and screw threads with a clean damp cloth. Cover with the lids,
screwing them down tight, and invert the jars for 5 minutes. then turn
upright. Let the jars stand at room temperature for 1 hour for cooked jams
or 24 hours for no cook jams. Gently stir no cook jams before refrigerating
or freezing. ALL JAMS MUST BE FROZEN OR REFRIGERATED! Store jams in the
freezer for up to 1 year.  Thaw frozen jams in the refrigerator.  Thawed
jams have a refrigerator shelf life of 3 weeks.

NOTE:

With the exception of two of the following recipes (the ones without
pectin) they may be processed as canned goods by using the instructions
found in any good cookbook for preserving jellies and jams.

