Title: SALMON WITH SPRING HERBS~ POTATOES & HORSER
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 1 Servings  Recipe by: Michael Kinneer <mkinner@LEX.ULTRANET.COM> For the
potatoes:

12 small Yukon Gold potatoes or other small yellow potatoes, cut into
quarters. Olive oil for drizzling. Kosher salt and freshly ground
black pepper, to taste.

Set the oven to 425 degrees F.  Place the potatoes on a baking sheet.
Drizzle with olive oil and salt and pepper. Bake in the preheated
oven for 30 - 40 minutes or until the potatoes are crispy outside but
soft inside. Remove from the oven.

For the horseradish cream:

1 2 inch piece fresh horseradish, peeled Juice of 1/2 lemon 1 cup
heavy cream Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

Into a bowl, using a hand-held grated, grate the horseradish, working
against the grain; use the next-to-smallest holes on the grater. Add
the lemon juice, heavy cream and salt and pepper to taste. Set aside
for 10 minutes to thicken.  Taste for acid balance and seasoning.

For greens:

4 cups total of the following greens:  chervil, chives, Italian
parsley, sorrel,basil, watercress and arugula Kosher salt and freshly
ground black pepper to taste Olive oil for drizzling Juice of half a
lemon or to taste

In a bowl, toss greens with salt and pepper and a drizzling of olive
oil. Add lemon juice and toss gently. Place greens on 4 dinner plates.

For salmon:

4 6-ounce salmon fillets, skin removed.

Heat a large skillet until hot but not smoking.  Place the salmon,
non-skin side down, in one layer with room around each piece. Sear
until brown and crispy, about 3 minutes. Turn and continue to cook
until medium rare in th center, about 2-3 minutes; or cook to the
doneness you prefer. Remove fish from pan.

Arrange the greens on 4 dinner plates.  Top with the potatoes and
salmon an drizzle with the horseradish cream. Serve immediately.

