Title: SAUTING TECHNIQUES
Categories: Info, Kooknet
Yield: 1 Info  While stir-frying cooks small pieces of seafood and vegetables over
high heat with constant stirring, sauting is done in a skillet over
moderate heat with less activity. First you brown the fish on one
side, then turn it over to finish cooking on the other ÄÄ an ideal
way to cook larger or more delicate pieces of fish.

The fish can be whole, cut into easy-to-handle fillets, or cut into
small pieces. Very thin fillets are tricky to saut because they
become quite fragile as they cook; you might want to consider
steaming them instead. To create a nice crisp coating when sauting,
first dust the fish lightly with flour, cornmeal, breadcrumbs or
finely chopped nuts.

Once the fish is cooked and has been transferred to warmed dinner
plates, you can make sauce in a flash using the same skillet. Add a
splash of lemon juice or white wine, some freshly chopped herbs
and/or minced green onion, heat just until warmed and pour over the
fish to serve. Or add a handful of chopped nuts to the skillet, toast
over moderately high heat, and scatter over the fish.

Because sauting requires the use of fat (oil, butter, or margarine),
you can't avoid the added calories, but a skillet with a nonstick
surface keeps added fat to a minimum. If you are not using a nonstick
pan, be sure that a thin layer of fat evenly covers the bottom of the
pan. You may need more or less oil than called for in the recipe
depending on the size of the pan.

How to Saut

1. If cooking the fish uncoated, pat dry with paper towels to remove
excess moisture and avoid splattering during cooking. If coating the
fish, lightly dust with the chosen coating and pat to remove the
excess.

2. Heat the oil or butter in a large skillet over medium heat, then
add the fish. Take are that the fish fits evenly in the pan without
overlapping. If necessary, cook the fish in batches or in two pans at
one time. Cook the fish until nicely browned, then carefully turn.

3. Continue cooking until well browned on both sides and opaque
through the thickest part of the fish. Cooking time will depend on
the thickness of the fish, but figure roughly 10 minutes total for
each inch of thickness.

4. Transfer the fish to warmed dinner plates and cover with foil to
keep warm. Add sauce ingredients to the pan and bring to a boil.

5. Arrange the fish on individual plates, spoon sauce over the fish
and serve.

Simply Seafood Fall 1994

Posted by Michael Prothro

