Title: SCOTS TABLETS
Categories: Candies
2 lb sugar
Yield: 1 Servings
3 c  cream

Put into an enamelled saucepan two pounds of granulated sugar and
three teacupfuls of thin cream or milk. Bring it gradually to the
boiling-point, stirring all the time.  Let it boil a few minutes.
Test as for toffee, but do not boil it so high.  When it has reached
the consistency of soft putty when dropped in wold water (about 245
F.), remove the pan from the fire. Add flavorings as below.  Now put
the pan into a basin of cold water and stir rapidly with a spoon. It
soon begins to solidify round the edge, and this must be scraped off
repeatedly. Keep stirring until the mass is sufficiently grained, and
then pour it immediately on to a buttered slab. If too highly
grained, it will not pour out flat; if too thin, it will be sticky.
Only practice makes perfection. When sufficiently firm, mark into
bars with a knife, or cut into rounds with the lid of a circular tin.
Flavorings: Cinnamon.  Add a few drops of oil of cinnamon Coco-nut.
Add four ounces of coco-nut and boil for two minutes, then add a
pinch of cream of tartar and remove from the fire. It should be
vigorously stirred till quite creamy. Fig. Add a pinch of cream of
tartar just before removing from the fire. Then stir in four ounces
of finely chopped figs, previously washed and dried. Ginger. Add Two
teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, dissolved in a little cold water, and
(if liked) some chopped preserved ginger. Lemon.  Add a small
teaspoonful of essense of lemon Orange. Add the grated rind and juice
of an orange Peppermint. Add a few drops of oil of peppermint
Vanilla.  Add a small tsp. of essence of vanilla. Walnut. Add half a
tsp. of essence of vanilla, and four ounces of shelled and chopped
walnuts.

