Title: Glossary of Ingredients in This Collection
Categories: Information, Greek
Yield: 1 servings
Greek Recipes
AVGOLEMONA--The best-known Greek sauce.  Made of eggs and lemon
juice, and used to flavor soups, meats, and vegetables.

BAKLAVA--A favorite Greek pastry.  Crisp phyllo pastry filled with
nuts and dripping with honey syrup.

BOUREKIA--Meats or vegetables wrappen in phyllo pastry.  Smaller
versions are called "bourekakia."

COPENHAGEN--A dessert named in honor of King George I of Greece,
who had been a Danish prince.

DOLMATHES--Stuffed grape leaves.  Filled with either meat or rice
and served hot or cold, with or without avgolemono.

FETA--Best known of the Greek cheeses.  Made of goats' milk.

FIDE (Fidelo)--A very fine egg noodle.  Sold here as fidelo,
fidilini, etc.

FLOYERES--Phyllo pastry having a long, flutelike shape.

GIOUVETSI--Greek casserole

GLYKO--The word means "sweet" and is used to refer to spoon sweets.

GRAPEVINE LEAVES--Used for preparing dolmathes.  Sold in this
country in jars, already prepared for use, just rinse before using.

HALVAH--Dessert made with farina.

IMAM BALDI--A real treat of eggplant and trimmings.  Legend has it
that the "imam" (high priest) fainted in delight when served this.
Other legends say he fainted at the cost of the amount of oil used.

KASSERI--A firm table cheese.  Used as a grating cheese.  You may
substitute Parmesan or Romano cheeses, but these have a stronger
flavor.

KATAIFE--Available in Greek pastry or specialty shoppes.  Some
people substitute shredded wheat for it with fairly good results.

KIMINO--Cumin seed.  Not too well known but easily available in
this country.  You will find many uses for its unusual flavor.

LATHERA--Foods braised in oil, and served in the same oil.

MAHLEPI--An unusual spice.  Must be ground before using.  Found in
specialty shoppes.

MASTIHA--Mastic.  Sometimes refers to the liqueur of the same name.

MAVRODAPHNE--A dessert wine.  Available at most liquor shoppes.

MIZITHRA--A mild cheese similar to cottage and ricotta cheese.

MORTADELLA--A salami.

OUZO--A clear liquor flavored with aniseed.  Very potent-few can
drink it straight.  Mix with cold water and it becomes cloudy.

PANTESPANI--Greek sponge cake.

PASTES SARDELIS--Salt-packed anchovies, served cleaned, and with
oil and vinegar.

PAXIMADIA--Biscuits served with coffee or tea.

PHYLLO--A strudel-like pastry dough readily found in most larger
supermarkets.

PILAFI--Cooked rice.

RENGA--Smoked herring.

SKORDALIA--A famous Greek garlic sauce.  Very, very powerful.  Not
to be eaten before a theatre engagement or any social event--unless
everyone else has eaten it too!!

TARAMA--Carp rice.

TRAHANA--A homemade noodle used in soups and stews.  Now available
commercially in specialty shoppes.  Substitute semolina if trahana in
unobtainable.

VISSINO--Sour cherries in a delicious preserve.

VISSINADA--Sour-cherry preserves mixed with iced water for a cool
summer drink.

ZAMPON--Ham.

