Title: Grilled Angler Fillet
Categories: Fish
Yield: 1 servings
-olive oil
-salt and pepper
-parsley
-fish fillets
-garlic
-bread crumbs
Because of its dense flesh the Angler must be cut sliced thin to be
grilled easily.  The best way is through use of the continuous
butterfly as outlined above.  But, you can also slice the fillet
crosswise into pieces about 1/2 inch thick and grill them on skewers.
Marinate in olive oil, garlic, salt, pepper, bread crumbs and parsley
for about 1/2 hour. Put on a very hot, oiled grill over mesquite
charcoal and cook until done, taking care not to overcook.

HOW TO FILLET AN ANGLER:

Remove the loose outer skin from the tail, trim the dorsal fin and,
for best results, especially when grilling, remove all the membrane
under the skin or it'll shrink and distort the fillet.  Cut off the
tail where the fillet stops.  Place the tail on your work surface,
ventral side down, and cut vertically along the bone to remove the
fillet from one side; repeat for the other side. From here, you may
want to butterfly each fillet. Hold the ventral side down and bone
side vertical. Holding the knife horizontally about 3/8 inch above
your work surface, cut from the outside toward the bone side to
within 1/4 inch of cutting through the fillet. Unfold the upper part
of the fillet until the bone side is flat against your work surface.
If this part of the fillet is still thick, you may want to make a
second cut in the same plane and unfold the remaining part. You want
to end up with the entire fillet reduced to about 1/4 inch.

