Title: Lavash
Categories: Bread, Middle east
Yield: 8 servings
5 1/2 c  All purpose flour
2 ts Salt
1 pk Yeast
2 c  Warm water
2 tb Sugar
Lightly oil a bowl for the dough.

Mix the yeast, water and sugar in a large mixing bowl. Add the flour
and salt and mix until it forms a well-blended but somewhat soft
dough. (resist the temptation to work in any more flour than
absolutely necessary.)

Knead the dough by hand or machine.  If by hand, turn it out on a
floured board and work it until it is smooth and elastic,
approximately 10 minutes. If using a dough hook on an electric mixer,
knead the dough at the slowest speed for about 5 minutes.

Pat the dough into a ball and put it in the oiled bowl. Cover the
dough with a kitchen towel and set it in a warm, draft-free place to
rise until the dough has doubled in bulk, about 30 to 40 minutes.  (A
perfect place is a gas oven with its slight heat given off by the
pilot light; an electric oven, turned on low for no more than 2
minutes, then turned off, works equally well.)

When the dough has doubled, turn it out on a floured board, punch it
down, and knead it again until there is no air left in it.  Divide
the dough into 8 round mounds, place them on the board, cover again
with a towel, and let rise until almost doubled, about 30-minutes.

While the dough is rising, preheat the oven to 450F. Position a rack
as close as possible to the oven bottom. Flour a 12x15-in baking
sheet.

When the 8 mounds of dough have risen, roll them out, one piece at a
time into rectangles about 12x15 inches (the size of a standard sheet
pan) and about as thin as for a pizza.  Puncture the entire surface
at 1/2-inch intervals with the tines of a roasting fork.

Bake the breads, one at a time, for 6 to 8 minutes, or until the tops
are lightly browned.  Remove each finished bread to a wire rack to
cool and continue baking the remaining breads until all 8 are
finished.  During the baking, if any large bubbles start to puff up,
puncture them immediately with a fork.
_________________________________________________

The bread in the Middle East is tradionally a type of cracker bread
called lavash (lawasha in Assyrian).  This flat leavened bread is
available in grocery stores and specialty markets and can be eaten as
a cracker in the dry, crisp form in which it comes.  However to serve
along with a meal, it is preferable to dampen it so that it becomes
more breadlike.

Moisten the lavash, one cracker at a time, under cold running water,
making sure that both sides are completely wet;  place in a plastic
bag for 3 hours, at the end of which time the bread will be pliable
and chewy. Lavash prepared in this fashion is also used for Aram
sandwiches. In the old country, a lavash bread would bake in a clay
bottomed oven in 2 to 3 minutes.  You can get much the same result
baking on a ceramic baking tile or directly on the floor of a gas
oven.

From MONDAY NIGHT AT NARSAI'S, by Narsai M David and Doris Muscatine.
New York: SIMON & SCHUSTER, 1987

FROM:    HOWARD WITTENBERG   (BCWX27A)

