Title: DETERMINING YOUR ALTITUDE ABOVE SEA LEVEL
Categories: Information, Canning
Yield: 1 Text  It is important to know your approximate elevation or altitude above
sea level in order to determine a safe processing time for canned
foods. Since the boiling temperature of liquid is lower at higher
elevations, it is critical that additional time be given for the safe
processing of foods at altitudes above sea level.

It is not practical to include a list of altitudes in this guide,
since there is wide variation within a State and even a county. For
example, the State of Kansas has areas with altitudes varying between
75 ft. to 4,039 ft. above sea level.  Kansas is not generally thought
to have high altitudes, but there are many areas of the State where
adjustments for altitude must be considered. Colorado, on the other
hand, has people living in areas between 3,000 and 10,000 feet above
sea level. They tend to be more conscious of the need to make
altitude adjustments in the various processing schedules.  To list
altitudes for specific counties may actually be misleading, due to
the differences in geographic terrain with within a county.

If you are unsure about the altitude where you will be canning foods,
consult your county Extension agent. An alternative source of
information would be your local district conservationist with the
Soil Conservation Service.

======================================================= === * USDA
Agriculture Information Bulletin No. 539 (rev. 1994) * Meal-Master
format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

