Title: DIPS INFO (9 OF 9)
Categories: Dips, Info/tips
Yield: 1 Servings
1 x  More information on DIPS fol
1 x  (This is part 9 of 9)
Seafood Follows: *********** * SEAFOOD * *********** The primary
seafood dipper is shrimp, the hands down all-time favorite of most
cocktail party aficionados. Salmon may be know for joining forces in
their journey upstream but no one has truly witnessed a school of
fish in action until they've seen a bevy of shrimp dippers converging
with full force on the remoulade. You might want to peruse the
following for more suggestions. SHRIMP:  Shell, score down the back
(making an incision about 1/16-inch deep), and remove the thin black
vein while holding under cold running water.  Bring a pot of water to
a boil (about 2 quarts of water for a pound of large shrimp).  Add a
little salt, throw in the shrimp, turn off the flame and let stand
for about 5 minutes, or until the shrimp just curl and turn pink and
translucent. DO NOT OVERCOOK!!! Then drain, run the shrimp under cold
water and refrigerate. CRAB CLAWS: Stone crab claws are readily
available already cooked. Just smash the shells with a nutcracker and
place in a bowl over ice. CRAB LEGS: King crab legs and snow crab
legs also are readily available already cooked. Break into lengths at
the joints and crack the shells with a nutcracker.  Place in a bowl
over ice. CRAYFISH: Follow the directions for preparing shrimp.
LOBSTER: Use large lobster tails.  Bring a pot of water to a boil
(about 2 quarts of water for a pound of lobster).  Plunge the tails
into the boiling water and return to a boil. When the shell turns
orange, lower to simmer and cook until the meat at the end of the
tail turns translucent.  Remove and blanch under cold water. Split
the soft underside of the shell with scissors, remove the meat and
cut into chunks. SARIMI: Imitation crab. Sold cooked and chunked in
most supermarkets. FRESH OYSTERS: Loosen the oyster from the bottom
shell and serve on the half shell over a bed of ice (allowing the
guest to scoop up the dip with oyster on the shell). SMOKED OYSTERS:
Drain and serve each with a toothpick. ******************** * MEAT
AND POULTRY * ******************** As long as you've eaten your
vegetable dippers, you can proceed to the rest of the goodies on the
dip table. Meat and poultry dippers will win the hearts and minds of
those guests who anticipated leaving your part having had only a
handful of potato chips to stave off starvation. CHICKEN BREASTS:
Poach the breasts in wine and cube for serving.  Or marinate breasts
in teriyaki sauce, bake and cube for serving. CHICKEN DRUMETTES:  The
drumsticklike part of the wing. Marinate if desired and then fry.
CHICKEN SATAY:  Skewer cooked, sliced chicken breast on a wooden
stick for dipping. DELI MEAT: Cut rolls of cooked, sliced roast beef,
ham, corned beef, or pastrami into 3 to 4-inch lengths. DUCK: Cut
cooked or smoked breast into strips. HAM: Cut cooked, smoked,
maple-cured ham into thin 3-inch strips or into 1-inch cubes. HOT
DOGS: Serve miniature cooked hot dogs whole or cut cooked regular
sized hot dogs into slices on the diagonal. PRECOOKED SAUSAGES: Use
bologna, summer sausage, any variety of salami, or other cooked
sausage cut into 1/2-inch lengths, then wedged. RAW SAUSAGES:  Try
pork, beef, veal, duck, or Polish. Prick the skin, broil until brown,
and cut into 2-inch lengths. STEAK: Marinate tenderloin or sirloin in
teriyaki sauce, broil, and cube. TURKEY: Cut cooked or smoked breasts
into strips or cubes. BEEF SATAY One of the more popular dippers to
surface of late is beef satay, or beef on a stick. It easy to eat and
filling, and meat as a dipper is still something of a novelty. 1 Ea
Sirloin Tip Steak (1 lb or better)
1/2    Cup Teriyaki Sauce 2 Tsp Finely Chopped Green Onion (White
part only)
Wooden Or Bamboo Skewers As Needed Thinly slice the steak.
Slices should be about 1/2-inch shorter than the skewers on which
they will be placed. Put the meat, sauce, and green onion in a
zip-lock bag, blend well, squeeze out the excess air from the bag,
and seal. Marinate at room temperature for at least 1 hour or in the
refrigerator for at lest 3 hours. (Steak can be marinated overnight
for a stronger taste.) Soak the skewers in water for 10 minutes
before using. Weave skewer in and out through the slice of beef,
leaving a 1/2-inch "handle" at the bottom. Repeat until all the
slices are skewered. Broil about 2

