Title: Lucerne Cheese Torte Part 6
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
Decoration
3/4 c  heavy cream
Whip the heavy cream until soft peaks and slowly closing tracks form.
Using a flexible metal icing spatula, and holding the cake on the
palm of the other hand, apply a dab of whipped cream to the side of
the cake. Without lifting the spatula, spread the frosting away from
you in a smooth, even stroke, moving forward, around and down. The
spatula should avoid touching the cake, or it will pick up and spread
crumbs on the frosting. Scrape the spatula on the edge of the bowl
between strokes to get rid of excess frosting and crumbs, which could
make tracks and mar the finish of your final coat.

After the sides have been completely sealed with a thin coat, place
the cake on a turntable, and apply a thin coat of whipped cream to
the top. (You never frost the top in your hand because it requires
different leverage and perspective.) Apply a second coat in the same
manner as the first,

to smoothly finish the cake. When the top and sides are completely
covered, spoon the remaining whipped cream into the pastry bag fitted
with a #4 star or 5A decorating tip, and pipe a swirl in eight places
on top of the cake. Refrigerate until 1 hour before serving. If
desired, make caramel sheet. When cool and hard, break off shards and
stick into each piped swirl to decorate the cake.

Caramel Sheet: 3 tablespoons water
1/2    cup sugar

Place a strip of aluminum foil onto a baking sheet or line the baking
sheet with a small silicone mat. Pour water and sugar into a 3 cup
saucepan or 10 inch skillet. Heat over low heat just until sugar
dissolves. Raise heat and boil until caramel is amber in color. Pour
over foil or silicone mat and spread thinly. Allow to cool and harden.

Yield: 8 servings

BAKERS' DOZEN FLO BRAKER SHOW #BD1A12

