Title: A Very Low-Fat (VLF) Thanksgiving Meal (Part 4)
Categories: Low cal/fat, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MASHED POTATOES
(you don't really need a recipe for this, do you? Add evap skim milk,
fake butter, and roasted garlic - A) MUSHROOM-BRANDY GRAVY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (once again, from Mollie Katzen, goddess of
veggie cooking) 1-1/2 cups milk 1 pound fresh mushrooms, cleaned &
thinly sliced X cooking spray 3 T brandy or dry sherry 3 T unbleached
white flour 1/4 tsp. salt X black pepper 1. Heat milk just to the
boiling point. Remove from heat and set aside. 2. In a large heavy
skillet, saute mushrooms in cooking spray over medium heat for about
5 minutes, stirring occasionally. 3. Add brandy and continue to cook
for about 5 more minutes. 4. Gradually sprinkle in the flour and mix
in into the mushrooms with a wire whisk. Keep whisking and cooking
another 5 minutes. Be sure the heat is not too high. 5. Stir in the
hot milk. Cook over low heat, stirring intermittently, until smooth
and thickened (about 8 minutes). Season to taste, and remove from
heat. GUILT-FREE PUMPKIN SWIRL CHEESECAKE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (filling is modified from _The
99% Fat Free Cookbook_ by Barry Bluestein & Kevin Morrisey; the crust
is mine - A) CRUST: 1-1/2 boxes SnackWell's cinnamon graham snacks,
crushed 4 T brown sugar 4 T flour 1/2 cup apple juice -concentrate-
(not apple juice!) FILLING: 1-1/2 cups yogurt cheese 1/4 cup nonfat
yogurt 3/4 cup granulated sugar 1 tsp. vanilla extract 6 T nonfat
liquid egg substitute (Egg Beaters) 1 tsp. brandy extract (or
Frangelico liqueur) 1 cup pumpkin puree (not solid pack - A) 1 tsp.
Schilling Apple Pie spice (or 3/4 t cinnamon + 1/4 t nutmeg + pinch
allspice) Preheat the oven to 350xF. Combine the crust ingredients in
a food processor. Lightly spray a 10-inch springform pan with cooking
spray. Evenly distribute crust batter along the bottom and up the
sides of the pan. Bake for 20 minutes Leave the oven on. Using an
electric mixer at medium speed, beat the yogurt cheese, yogurt, 1/2
cup of the sugar, and the vanilla extract until well-blended. Add the
egg substitute, 2T at a time, mixing well after each addition. Remove
1 cup of the mixture and set aside. To the mixing bowl, add the
brandy extract, pumpkin, and spices. Mix well with an electric mixer
until all the ingredients are well-incorporated. Pour top one side of
the crust. Pour the reserved cup of yogurt mixture on the other side.
Shake lightly to even the top. With a dinner knife, cut through both
batters several times in a circular motion to create a marbleized
effect. Bake for 1 hour, until firm. (check after 45 minutes - A)
Remove from oven an place on a cooling rack. Run a knife along the
sides of the pan to loosen the cake. Cool for 30 to 40 minutes *in
the pan* and then remove the sides. Chill in the refrigerator for 2
to 3 hours before serving. Yield: 12 servings, 0.77g fat each. (can
you BELIEVE IT? - A) From: anitaepler@eworld.com - AnitaEpler at
eWorld

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-21-95

