Title: A Very Low-Fat (VLF) Thanksgiving Meal (Part 2)
Categories: Low cal/fat, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PANMARINO (ROSEMARY BREAD)
(modified from _The Il Fornaio Baking Book_ by Franco Galli) 1/4 tsp.
active dry yeast 1/2 C warm water (105x F) 2 3/4 cups unbleached bread
flour 3/4 tsp. salt 1/2 C cool water 1/4 C biga @ room temperature
(recipe follows) X Additional flour for work surface X Yellow
cornmeal for baker's peel 2 tsp. roughly chopped fresh rosemary 2 T
skim milk X Pam (for bowl) X coarse sea salt In a small bowl,
dissolve the yeast in the warm water. Set aside for 15 minutes.
Measure flour into a large bowl. Stir the salt into the flour. Using
a *wooden* spoon, make a well in the four and add the yeast mixture,
cool water and biga. Using the spoon, stir the ingredients until the
dough is too resistant to be stirred. Knead the dough on a lightly
floured surface to 20 minutes. Return the dough to the bowl, and add
the milk and rosemary. (Don't panic: it will be a gloopy mess. Knead
it for 5 minutes and it will be fine; if it's still a mess after 5
full minutes, add a pinch more flour to get it to take shape - A)
Shape the dough into a ball. Spray a large bowl with cooking spray,
and place the ball in the bowl.. Turn the ball so it gets coated.
Cover with a towel, and let rise until double, approx. 1-1/2 hours.
Punch down the dough by folding the edges in and turning it over so
the top is smooth again. Re-cover the bowl, and let rise again, about
45 minutes or until doubled. Turn the dough out onto a lightly
floured work surface. Trying not to overwork the dough, fold the
edges in toward the center. Work in a circular motion, folding the
entire rim of the dough toward the center twice to form a loose round
ball with a smooth side. Place the ball, rough side up, on the
floured surface. Using your fingertips, gently press the ball out
into a disk about 6 inches in diameter and 1 inch thick. Lift up the
far edge of the disk and fold it toward you, to rest on top of the
disk, so that 1/3 of the disk remains uncovered. Lift the folded edge
and roll it toward you until the dough takes a (American-style)
football shape. When you reach the edge nearest you, press the edge
of the roll to the bottom edge of the disk with the heel of your
hand, forming a seam. Turn the loaf so that it rests seam side down
on a baker's peel dusted with cornmeal. Cover with a towel an let
rise at room temp. until doubled, about 50 minutes. Meanwhile, place
a baking stone in the oven and preheat to 425xF. Mist the preheated
oven with a spray bottle, and quickly shut the door. Using a sharp
serrated knife, make a slash in the top of the loaf (I like to use a
starburst pattern - A). Sprinkle coarse sea salt into the slash. Mist
the loaf. With a rhythmic snap of the wrist, slide the loaf onto the
baking stone. Mist the oven again (and any time you open the door -A)
and bake until the loaf is golden brown n the top, ark brown on the
bottom, and has a hollow ring when tapped on the bottom (40 to 50
minutes). Remove to a wire rack to cool completely. From:
anitaepler@eworld.com - AnitaEpler at eWorld

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-21-95

