Title: Five Keem-Chee Recipes
Categories: Side dish, Korean
Yield: 1 servings
-ART OF KOREAN
The following recipes are
-taken verbatim from "THE
MMMMM----------------COOKING" BY HARRIETT MORRIS---------------------
"Keem-chee is a pickle that is served at practically all meals.  It
is made from raw vegetables and is a good source of vitamins. TURNIP
'KEEM-CHEE' (Moo keem-chee) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6 med.
turnips 1 red chile pepper 1 1/2 tbsp. salt 1 tsp. candied ginger 1
1/2 cups water Wash, peel, and quarter turnips.  Add 1 tbsp. salt and
let stand 2 days. Save the salt water that forms on the turnips.
Remove turnips and slice in pieces 1/4" in thickness.  Put turnips in
a jar.  Add chopped ginger, chopped red pepper, 1/2 tbsp. salt, and
the salt water from the turnips, plus enough extra water to make 1
1/2 cups.  Mix well and put in refrigerator for 2 weeks. Serve the
water with the turnips. CUCUMBER 'KEEM-CHEE' (O-i keem-chee)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3 large cucumbers 1 1/2 tbsp.
salt 1 green onion 1/2 clove garlic 1/2 tsp. chopped red chile pepper
1/2 cup water Wash the cucumbers and, without peeling, cut them into
1 1/2" lengths.  cut each piece in half lengthwise and remove the
seeds.  Add 1 tbsp. salt to the cucumbers.  Mix well and let stand 15
minutes. Cut the onion (including top) into 1 1/2" lengths and shred
each piece lengthwise very finely. Chop the garlic and red chile
pepper into fine pieces. Wash the salt from the cucumbers.  Add
onion, garlic, red pepper, 1/2 tbsp. salt, and water.  Mix well.  Set
aside to ripen.  In warm weater 2 days are sufficient, but in cold
weather 1 week is required. WINTER 'KEEM-CHEE' (Tong keem-chee)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3 heads celery cabbage 3/4 cup
salt 8 turnips 6 cloves garlic 6 tbsp. chopped red chile pepper 2
tsp. chopped candied ginger 2 green onions 2 stalks celery 1/4 cup
chestnuts 1 firm pear water Remove the outside leaves of the cabbage.
Wash the leaves and also to heads of cabbage and place all in a large
jar. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup salt and let stand 3 hours. Wash and peel
turnips. Shred 1 1/2 cups into fine strips 1" long and cut the
remainider into thin slices.  Combine the two.  Add 1/4 cup salt and
let stand 30 minutes. Drain.  Remove the sliced turnip. To the
shredded turnip, add the chopped garlic, chopped red peppers, and
chopped ginger. Cut the green onions (including tops) into 1 1/2"
lengths, shred lengthwise, and add to the turnip mixture.  Mix well.
Wash and cut celery into 1 1/2" lengths and shred lengthwise. Peel
chestnuts and cut into fine pieces. Wash and peel pear and shred in
fine pieces. Add celery, chestnuts, and pear to turnip mixture.
Remove heads of cabbage from brine. Wash well and drain. Open the
leaves of cabbage without breaking them.  Pack the turnip mixture
down in between each leaf.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-11-95

