Title: Five Keem-Chee Recipes (cont'd)
Categories: Side dish, Korean
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Fold leaves back in place.  Wrap some of the longer outside leaves
around the top of the cabbage head to keep the turnip mixture from
coming out. Put cabbage heads into a large jar.  Add sliced turnip
and cover with the outer leaves of cabbage that have been in the
brine. Cover and place a weight on the cabbage.  Let stand 2 days.
Make a brine of 4 cups water to 3/4 cup salt and cover the cabbage
heads, not including the outer leaves on top. Cover the jar and let
stand 1 month. When serving, remove head from the brine and cut into
circles 2" thick, crosswise. Place the cut side up in the dish in
which it is served. For 25 to 30 servings. SPRING 'KEEM-CHEE' (Pom
keem-chee) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3 cups celery cabbage 3
tbsp. salt 3 green onions 1 clove garlic 1/2 tsp. chopped red chile
pepper 1 tsp. chopped candied ginger 1 1/2 cups water

Wash the cabbage and cut into pieces 1" long and 1" wide.  Sprinkle
with 2 tbsp. salt.  Mix well and let stand 15 minutes.  Cut the
onions (including tops) into 1 1/2" lengths and shred lengthwise.
Chop the garlic, red pepper, and ginger in fine pieces.  After the
cabbage has stood 15 minutes, wash it twice in cold water.  Mix the
prepared vegetables with the cabbage. Add 1 tbsp. salt and put into a
stone or glass jar. Add enough water to cover the cabbage and let
stand for several days. In warm weater, 1 day is sufficient, but in
cold weather, 5 days are needed. Keem-chee can be kept several weeks
in the refrigerator. 'KEEM-CHEE' IN SOY SAUCE (Jahng keem-chee)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3 heads celery cabbage 1
cup sliced turnip 1 cucumber 1 1/4 cups soy sauce 3 cloves garlic 1
tsp. candied ginger 1 tbsp. chopped chile pepper 1 tbsp. salt 4 green
onions 1/4 cup shredded celery 1 firm pear 6 chestnuts 6 dates 1/4
cup pine nuts 1/3 cup sugar Wash the cabbage heads. Carefully remove
the outside lwaves and place them in a stone jar.  Separate the
tender inside leaves and cut into pieces 1 1/2" square.  Put them
into the stone jar.  Add 1/4 cup soy sauce. Mix well.  let stand 3
hours, or until cabbage is soft. Stir several times so that cabbage
will be flavoured with the soy sauce. Wash, peel turnips, and cut
into very thin slices.  Wash cucumber and, without peeling it, cut
lengthwise, remove the seeds, and slice in thin slices crosswise.
Combine the turnips and cucumber and 1/4 cup soy sauce. Mix well. Let
stand 3 hours, or until soft.  Stir occasionally. Drain the soy sauce
from the cabbage, turnips, and cucumber, and save it. Mix vegetables
and 1 tbsp. salt. Chop garlic, ginger, peppers, onions (including
tops), and add to the cabbage mixture.  Cut celery into 1 1/2"
lengths.  Shred fine lengthwise and add to the cabbage.  Peel and
slice pear in flat pieces 1" square. Peel chestnuts and slice thin.
Remove seeds from dates and quarter. Add pear, chestnuts, dates, and
pine-nuts to the cabbage mixture. Mix well. Remove large leaves from
the stone jar and put in the cabbage mixture. Add sugar and enough of
the saved soy sauce (in the proportion of 2 cups water to 1/2 cup soy
sauce) to cover vegetables. Cover the top of the keem-chee with the
large leaves that were soaked in the soy sauce. Let stand 2-3 weeks."
From: JoAnne_Cornwall@isqm.mda.uth.tmc.edu (jac)

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-11-95

