Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Ingredients #7
Categories: Information, Diabetic
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free by Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

Ingredients (cont'd) ********************

Fruit Sweeteners (cont'd) *************************

It is necessary to add a small amount of baking soda to batters and
doughs to neutralize the acidity of fruit sweeteners in a proportion
of approximately 1/2 teaspoon baking soda to 2 cups acid ingredients.

Kiwis: ****** Distinctive kiwi fruits have the best texture, least
tart flavour and brightest green colour when they are ripe and barely
soft to the touch. Peel kiwis with a small sharp knife. Be careful to
remove only the outer fuzzy brown peel, leaving the shape and size of
the fruit intact. Kiwis are round or oval shaped fruits. Be careful
not to peel them into hexagons. Once peeled and washed, kiwis quickly
soften and darken in colour. Thus, it is best not to peel or slice
them until just before they are to be used.

Kuzu: ***** Kuzu is the powdered root of the wile arrowroot plant.
The kuzu plant is native to the mountains of Japan and the southern
United States (where it is called kudzu). The plant often grows to a
height of 30 feet, with tough deep roots. The extraction of the
starch from the roots is done by hand in a long and expensive
process. Kuzu can be purchased in natural food stores. It is usually
packaged in small white irregular lumps, which disperse quickly in
cold water to make a milky liquid. When heated and stirred over heat,
the liquid suddenly comes clear and thick. Cook kuzu-thickened
mixtures at a simmer for five minutes to stabilize the kuzu. At the
bakery we sometimes use kuzu as a thickening agent in place of
arrowroot, cornstarch or eggs. Kuzu is used medicinally in the Orient
in a thickened beverage to soothe and strengthen the intestines.

Lecithin Spray/Nonstick Vegetable Spray:
**************************************** I prefer to use Pam, a
spray-on food release made from lecithin and a small amount of soy
oil for stick free baking. It is faster, neater, and more convenient
that using butter or oil for greasing pans. The sides of cake pans
should not be sprayed with a lecithin spray. This I unhappily learned
the day I felt inspired to spray the sides of the cake pan for easier
cleanup. Instead, my cake was unable to rise and its sides collapsed
in on themselves. I can now affirm with certainty that cakes need a
non slippery surface to cling to as they rise in the oven.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-09-95

