Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Ingredients #10
Categories: Information, Diabetic
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free by Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

Ingredients (cont'd) ********************

Plumped Raisins: **************** Use plumped raisins in any recipe
requiring raisins. They are more tender and more delicious than dried
raisins. They can be plumped in a large quantity at a time, or in
just the amount you need for the specific recipe. Raisins measure
about the same dry as they do after plumping. To make one cup of
plumped raisins, bring two cups of water to a boil, add one cup of
raisins. When the water returns to a boil, turn off the heat. Let the
raisins plump in the water for 10 to 30 minutes. Drain the raisins,
reserving the raisin water for use in place of the same amount of
water in breads, cookies, or other recipes. Store both plumped
raisins and the raisin water in the refrigerator for two or more
weeks.

Raisin Water: ************* Raisin water is the liquid remaining after
draining plumped raisins. It has a rich, dark brown colour and sweet
flavour. It can be used in place of an equal amount of water in
breads, cookies, or other recipes. Raisin water is often used in
whole wheat breads to give them a deeper colour and sweeter flavour.
Raisin water can be stored for two weeks or more in the refrigerator.

Raspberries and Blackberries: ***************************** As both
raspberries and blackberries are more fragile than strawberries, they
should not be dipped in water, where they would easily become water
logged and flavorless. It is best to sort through them and discard
any spoiled berries, and then to place the good berries on a pan
covered with a clean dry kitchen towel. Shake the pan so that the
berries roll around and clean themselves of dirt, leaves, etc. As
with strawberries, if the berries are to sit before you use them, be
sure they are spaced so as not to touch one another.

Sea Salt: ********* Natural, sun-dried white sea salt contains many
trace amounts of minerals that are important to the functioning of
the human body. Ordinary table salt has had all but the sodium and
chloride removed during the refining process, thus reducing salt from
a vital food to a flavouring agent. I include a small amount of salt
in many recipes where it helps heighten and balance flavours, thus
reducing the amount of sweetener needed by producing a sweeter taste
on the tongue. As high quality natural sun dried sea salt is not
readily available to most Americans, regular commercial salt should
be used only in moderation. Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-09-95

