Title: Handling Canning Jars And Lids
Categories: Information, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------------HANDLING JARS----------------------------
Always start with clean, perfect jars. Be sure to examine them
carefully for nicks, scratches, or even the slightest imperfections
and run your finger over the rims as well. If a jar isn't perfect,
don't use it. Next, wash the jars in hot suds, rinse well, and keep
them warm in hot water or in your dishwasher on the dry setting.
Don't warm them in the oven.

Remember that you are working with glass, and that sudden changes of
temperature can cause cracking or breakage. That means you must
always be sure the jar and the food being canned are close to the
same temperature and that the jar is set on wood, a cloth, or a rack
as you fill it. Never pour boiling water or hot food into a room
temperature jar, never put a room temperature jar full of food into
boiling water, and never put a hot, processed jar on a cold, wet
surface; it could break.

Take care to protect your jars from contact with metal. Don't use
steel wool to clean them and never use a knife or other metal utensil
to remove air bubbles or loosen food from the jar. This could cause
nicks or scratches that lead to breakage. Finally, use only jars made
specifically for canning. No other jars are designed to withstand the
heat and pressure of processing.

Lids and caps should always be washed in hot, soapy water and rinsed
well. You must follow the manufacturer's directions to the letter.
Generally, you put vacuum lids and screw bands in a pan with water to
cover and bring them to a simmer (180 degrees F). Having done this,
remove them from the heat and keep them in the water until ready for
use to protect them from microorganisms.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-04-95

