Title: How to Peel and Seed Tomatoes
Categories: Information, Low cal/fat
Yield: 1 info
None
Many recipes call for peeled and seeded tomatoes. Why bother doing
either? Tomato skins, especially when cooked, can form red filaments
that get caught in your teeth. Tomato seeds come in a watery pulp
that can dilute the flavor of the dish.

Never refrigerate tomatoes. If they're not ripe. they'll ripen at room
temperature. They'll never ripen if refrigerated. If they're ripe,
refrigeration will make them mealy.

To Peel a Tomato

Method One: 1. Using the tip of a paring knife, cut out the stem end
and cut a shallow X in the rounded end. Plunge the tomato in rapidly
boiling water for 15-60 seconds. The riper the tomato, the shorter
the cooking time required.

2. Let the tomato cool on a plate until you can comfortably handle
it, them pull off the skin with your fingers. It should slip off in
broad strips.

Method Two: This method has the added advantage of producing a
decorative tomato rose. Starting from the bottom, the end opposite
the stem, pare off the skin in a single continuous strop, 1/2 to 3/4
inch wide. Roll up the strip as you would a roll of paper. Set the
roll on end; it will look like a rose.

To Seed a Tomato

Cut the tomato in half widthwise and squeeze each half in the palm of
your hand, cut side down, to wring out the seeds and liquid. Work
over a bowl and strainer. Push the pulp through the strainer with the
back of a spoon. Reserve the tomato liquid that collects at the
bottom of the bowl for sauce and soups.

One peeled, seeded tomato produces about 3/4 cup chopped tomato.

High-Flavor, Low-Fat Vegetarian Cooking by Steven Raichlen pg 256
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-27-95

