Title: Layer Tri-Color Bean Terrine (Directions)
Categories: Vegetables, Side dish
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM--------------------NO INGREDIENTS FOUND-------------------------
Black Beans: In a 2-qt. saucepan, combine all the ingredients except
the salt. Bring to a boil, lower the heat and simmer until the beans
are very tender, about 1 hour. Add the salt during last 2-3 minutes
of cooking. Lift out and discard the onion, celery and carrot. Keep
the beans in their liquid and set aside.

White Beans: In a 2-qt. saucepan, combine all the ingredients except
the salt. Bring to a boil, lower the heat and simmer until the beans
are very tender, about 45-60 minutes. Add the salt during last 2-3
minutes of cooking. Lift out and discard the onion, celery, carrot,
bay leaf and parsley. Keep the  beans in their liquid and set aside.

Green Split Peas: In a 2-qt. saucepan, combine all the ingredients
except the salt and pepper. Bring to a boil, lower the heat and
simmer until the beans are very tender and most of the liquid has
been absorbed, about 45 minutes. Stir occasionally while cooking; add
the salt and pepper during the last 2-3 minutes of cooking. Lift out
and discard the onion, celery, carrot, bay leaf and parsley. Transfer
the split peas to a bowl and set aside.

Pures: To make the pures, drain the beans well. In the bowl of a
food processor, add 2 eggs and 2 tbs. cream and process well. Add the
black beans and process until a thick pure is formed. Spoon and
scrape the pure into a bowl, cover and refrigerate. Wash and dry the
food processor and repeat with the white beans and then with the
green split peas.

The three kinds of beans may be prepared, pured and refrigerated 1
day in advance. Cover and refrigerate.

To Bake: Preheat the oven to 350øF. and boil a kettle of water.
Butter a 1«-quart loaf pan, preferably Pyrex so you can see the depth
of each layer. Cut and trim two pieces of parchment paper, one to fit
the bottom of the pan and one a bit larger to fit the top of the pan.

Butter both sides of the bottom piece of paper and press it into the
bottom of the pan. Spoon the black bean pure into the prepared pan
and smooth the surface evenly. Then spoon in the white bean pure
across the width of the pan without disturbing the black layer. Then
spoon the green pure over the white. Butter one side only of the top
piece of parchment and lay it butter side down onto the green layer.
Place the loaf pan into a larger pan with deep sides and pour enough
boiling water into the larger pan to come halfway up the sides of the
loaf pan. Bake for about 1¬ hour. Then lift off

the parchment and test the center with a thin knife blade. If it
comes out clean, the terrine is done. If not, return it to the oven
for an additional 5-10 minutes and retest. Remove the top piece of
parchment and discard. cool on a wire rack for 20 minutes.

Run the tip of a knife around the inside of the pan to free the  top
edge. Place a large serving platter over the pan and, holding both,
flip the terrine over. Lift off the baking dish and wait 5 minutes
before peeling off the parchment. When slicing, use a sharp knife
dipped in water before cutting each slice.

Serve warm or a room temperature with the roasted orange pepper sauce.

Roasted Orange Pepper Sauce: Char the orange peppers oven an open
flame on top of the stove or under a broiler. Wrap them in foil or a
paper bag to steam for 5-10 minutes, then open the wrapping, cool
them slightly and scrape off the charred skin. Remove the stem and
seeds and discard. Rinse the peppers, blot dry, cut them into strips
and set aside.

In an 8-inch skillet, heat the olive oil. Cut the onion and garlic
into large pieces and add to the oil. Saut for 3 minutes over
medium-low heat, stirring frequently, until the onion is wilted. Stir
the reserved peppers into the onion-garlic mixture, add the rosemary,
and saut, stirring occasionally for 5 minutes. Add the vinegar,
raise the heat and cook, stirring, for 1 minute, until the vinegar
evaporates. Then lower the heat, stir in the « cup chicken stock and
the saffron and simmer for 5-8 minutes more. Let the mixture cool
slightly, season with salt and pepper and pure in the bowl of a food
processor until the mixture is smooth. Add the remaining 2 tbs. of
chicken stock to dilute the sauce if too thick and blend. Adjust the
seasoning, transfer to a bowl and set aside.

When ready to serve, place the sliced terrine on a large platter.
Spoon the sauce around it. Decorate the sauce with red pepper cut
into small diamond shapes and arrange them in clusters of three, with
1 caper in the center of each cluster.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
pg 489-491
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-17-95

