Title: Smoking Salmon And Trout Part XV - Salting
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 text file  Use only pure pickling salt as it has no impurities or additives to
toughen or discolor fish. Mild salting still requires refrigeration;
hard salting does not. Salted fish will require freshening before
eating.

Mild Salting: Clean the fish and ice them if you can't salt right
away. Fillet them. Cut the fillets into chunks according to
thickness. Score the skin. Caseharden the fish by soaking in a cold
deblooding bath of 65 deg sal brine [2 2/3 c salt to 100 oz water]
for 1 hr. to stop fat fish from oozing oil. [press out any blood in
this bath with your fingers.] Weigh fish and have ready 1 lb salt for
every 10 lb fish.

To salt the fish, spread the required salt in a pan or tray. Lay each
piece of fish, skin side down on the salt and scoop salt over it;
don't rub it in- just cover it. Pick up the piece with as much salt
as will adhere to it and place skin side down in the curing
container. when a layer is completed sprinkle it lightly with salt
and pack successive layers, skin side down until the top layer- pack
it skin side up. Fill the packed container with saturated brine- 100
deg sal[ 4 1/2 cups salt per 100 oz water.] Weight the fish down to
submerge completely in the brine. Cover. Store at 35 to 40
deg,-normal refrigerator temp and let cure two weeks. Will keep up to
one year.

Hard Salting: Follow as above except increase salt to 2 1/2 lb per 10
lb fish. Will keep one year if kept in a cool place.

Extracted from: Smoking Salmon & Trout by Jack Whelan. Published by:
Airie Publishing, Deep Bay, B.C. ISBN: 0-919807-00-3 Posted by: Jim
Weller Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   11-03-95

