Title: Stuff To Eat, Drink & Etiquette (Part 5)
Categories: Blank
Yield: 1 servings
CHIC TECHNIQUES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CHOPSTICKS
~~~~~~~~~~
STUFF TO EAT, DRINK &
-ETIQUETTE (PART 5)
============================
-============
Pick up one chopstick as you would a pencil, in the middle of the
chopstick, holding it between the base of your thumb and your index
finger, using your third and fourth fingers for support. This leaves
your index finger free. Place the second chopstick parallel to the
first, holding it firmly between the thumb and index finger. The
first chopstick remains stationary, while the second one is used as a
lever. Rather than lowering head to plate, lift the small bowls of
rice to just below your mouth for eating. Place the chopsticks across
your bowl or plate between bites or at the end of the meal. Some
Japanese restaurants provide a small ceramic piece on which to rest
your chopsticks. Don't be embarrassed to ask for help, and if you are
more comfortable using a fork, ask for one. CREPES, BLINTZES AND
TORTILLAS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ There are almost as many
kinds of cr&ecirc;pes as there are Frenchmen in Aisne, for every
ethnic group has its own form of the stuffed pancake. A dessert crepe
(crepe suzette or blini) is eaten with a fork and spoon. Cutting and
eating are done with the spoon; stabilizing, with the fork. The
blintze, a thin pancake rolled around a cheese or fruit filling and
either fried or baked, is eaten with a knife and fork. It is often
accompanied by sour cream, a dollop of which can be placed on each
piece. Never dip a piece of blintze into the sour cream. The Chinese
crepe may be filled with a mixture of meat (pork is typical), sauce
and lettuce. It is rolled and eaten from the hand. Hot tortillas may
be folded in quarters and buttered. Or you may hold one flat in your
hand or on a plate, put some beans or other mixture in the center and
roll it like a cigar. Eat from one end to the other. FINGER BOWLS
~~~~~~~~~~~~ Finger bowls are genuinely helpful after eating
artichokes, shellfish, corn on the cob, asparagus or any other
handheld food. And they're easier to use than you might think. Just
dip the fingers of one hand and then the other into the bowl, and
wipe them with a napkin. Never bring the water to your mouth. After
you've used a finger bowl presented on a dessert plate, pick up the
dessert silver (if it is on the plate) and put it to either side of
the plate, then lift the finger bowl and its doily and place it to
the left of the plate. This requires two hands. FONDUE ~~~~~~ For
cheese fondue, spear a piece of bread on a fondue fork and dip it
into the pot of hot cheese. Coat it and remove it from the cheese,
but hold it over the pot for a few seconds to drip and cool, then
eat. Try not to touch the fork with your lips or tongue, because it
goes back in the pot. For a meat fondue, plunge a speared piece of
meat into the hot oil to cook. When it looks as if it's done to your
requirements, the meat is removed to a plate and eaten with a regular
fork while your next piece is cooking. Accompanying the meat fondue
is usually a choice of sauces; put these sauces on your dinner plate
with either a ladle or serving spoon. Then, with your knife, push
some sauce onto the dinner fork you've used to spear the meat. HOW TO
DRINK IT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Drinking coffee, tea and other hot drinks
from a mug is common in informal settings. A saucer may be provided
underneath for you to put your teaspoon on. Most often, though, there
isn't one. If there are paper mats, the spoon may be placed facedown
on one of them, or on the edge of a butter plate or dinner plate.
Don't drink from a mug with a spoon in it, not least because you run
the risk of

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-18-95

