Title: Stuff To Eat, Drink & Etiquette (Part 1)
Categories: Blank
Yield: 1 servings
STARTERS
~~~~~~~~
ARTICHOKES
~~~~~~~~~~
STUFF TO EAT, DRINK &
-ETIQUETTE (Part 1)
============================
-============
This "edible thistle" is served stuffed or plain, usually with hot
drawn lemon butter, hollandaise, mayonnaise or vinaigrette. Tear a
leaf from the cooked, presented artichoke with your fingertips and
pull it through your teeth to remove the edible pulp. (Hold the
pointed tip and put the fleshy wider end into your mouth.) If your
artichoke is accompanied by lemon butter or vinaigrette, dip the
edible end and quickly bring it to your mouth. With a thicker sauce,
handle the edible end like a corn chip. If the artichoke is stuffed,
peel off a leaf and spread the stuffing onto it with a knife. When
you reach the thin inner leaves, discard them. You may hold the
bottom of the artichoke steady on your plate with a fork and use your
fingers to pull them off. Doing so reveals the artichoke's hairy
center, which you do not eat. Remove it instead, and you are left
with the vegetable's favored "heart" This can be cut into pieces and
eaten plain, or else dipped in whatever accompanies your artichoke.
CAVIAR ~~~~~~ If caviar is passed to you in a bowl or crock with its
own spoon, serve a teaspoonful onto your plate. As the following
accompaniments are offered, use the individual serving spoons in each
to take small amounts of minced onion and sieved egg whites and
yolks, as well as a few lemon slices and a couple of toast points.
Assemble a canape to your taste with a knife, then use your fingers
to lift it to your mouth. If you're at a cocktail party or reception
where prepared caviar canap&eacute;s are being passed on trays,
simply lift one off the plate and pop it into your mouth. CHEESE
~~~~~~ As an hors d'oeuvre, cheese is spread on a cracker with the
knife that accompanies each kind. When cheese is served with a salad,
you can spread it on a cracker or a small bit of bread with either a
fork or knife, or else a piece of cheese may be broken off on your
plate with a fork and eaten with lettuce. Soft, runny cheeses, such
as Brie and Camembert, are always spread with a salad knife or butter
knife. Dessert cheeses served with fruit are easily handled: Just
quarter, core and/or p are the apples or ripe pears, and then eat the
cheese with a fork and the fruit with either a fork or your fingers.
Alternate bites of fruit and cheese. PATE ~~~~ Pate may appear either
before dinner or with the salad during a meal. If it is served to you
with cocktails, spread it thickly on crackers or small pieces of
toast, and eat with your hands. If it accompanies the salad course,
it may be passed in a crock or in a ring mold. In that case, lift off
a slice or serve a spoonful onto your plate along with a cracker or
toast. Prepare a small open sandwich with a knife, then lift it with
your hand to your mouth. Cornichon pickles (small gherkins) are often
served with pate and should be eaten with a fork. SHRIMP COCKTAIL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ If oversize shrimp are served in a stemmed glass,
pick them up with an oyster fork and bite off a mouthful at a time,
dipping into the sauce before each bite. It is too precarious to cut
shrimp in this kind of dish. If large shrimp are served on a flat
dinner plate, they can be cut with a knife and fork. SOUPS ~~~~~ Soup
may be served either in a soup plate or in a cup, depending on the
type of soup and the formality of the meal. Clear soups are often
served in small, doubled-handled consomme cups. You can test the heat
of the soup with a spoon, then lift the

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-18-95

