Title: Stuff To Eat, Drink & Etiquette (Part 6)
Categories: Blank
Yield: 1 servings
ICE CREAM
~~~~~~~~~
JUST DESSERTS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
STUFF TO EAT, DRINK &
-ETIQUETTE (PART 6)
============================
-============
Ice cream is eaten with a small spoon. When it is served with cake or
pie, or as part of a dish (Baked Alaska, for example), it is eaten
with a dessert fork and a spoon. PASTRY ~~~~~~ Usually, a fruit tart
is eaten with a fork. But if you are offered one along with both a
fork and a dessert spoon, secure the tart with the fork and cut with
thespoon; then eat it with the spoon. Pie is eaten with a fork unless
it's served &agrave; la mode, in which case both a fork and spoon are
used. If you are offered a creamy pastry, such as a napoleon or cream
puff, it's advisable to use a fork rather than your hand, in order to
keep the good stuff from oozing out the other end. PLUM PUDDING
~~~~~~~~~~~~ After the flames from the brandy sauce die down, this
dessert (which in fact doesn't contain plums and isn't really a
pudding) is usually served in a dessert bowl, often accompanied by
ice cream or a sauce. Either or both of these are scoopedonto your
pudding, and the whole thing is eaten with a spoon. If brandy is
passed while the dessert is being served, pour some onto your
pudding, not into your glass. POACHED PEARS ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Eat with a
spoon and a fork. The fork holds the pear down against the dish, and
the spoon is used to cut the fruit into small edible pieces. The fork
can also be used to rotate the fruit around to get at all the flesh.
If only a spoon is provided, use your hand to rotate the dish. Leave
the core in the dish and spoon out the wine or syrup. SORBET ~~~~~~
When this quintessential palate cleanser is served as an
accompaniment to a meat course or with a fruit cup, it may be eaten
with a fork. If it is served as a dessert, use a spoon. STEWED FRUIT
~~~~~~~~~~~~ Stewed fruit is eaten with a spoon, but you may want to
resort to a fork to steady some of the larger pieces. All pits from
cherries, prunes and plums are to be discreetly spit out onto the
spoon and then deposited on the side of your plate. Playing with Your
Food - Bon Appetit Gourmet

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-18-95

