Title: Stuff To Eat, Drink & Etiquette (Part 2)
Categories: Blank
Yield: 1 servings
VEGETABLES
~~~~~~~~~~
ASPARAGUS
~~~~~~~~~
STUFF TO EAT, DRINK &
-ETIQUETTE  (PART 2)
============================
-=============
If asparagus spears are served already in a sauce, eat them with a
fork and knife by cutting them into manageable pieces. If they are to
be dipped in a sauce and are large, cut off the tips and eat them
separately to avoid any dripping and dropping. You may pick up the
stalks by hand, and then dip and eat the tougher part. Smaller
asparagus spears be entirely manageable by hand, in which case you
can pick up the whole thing, dip and eat. CHERRY TOMATOES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Except when they're served in a salad, eat cherry
tomatoes with your fingers. Try to select small ones that will fit
whole in your mouth, and don't try to eat them bite by bite, because
they will spurt. Instead, keep your lips firmly together. If there
are only large tomatoes to be found on your plate, pierce the skin
gently with your front teeth, bite off half and then carefully
finish. CORN ON THE COB ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Fresh corn on the cob will
most likely be served at informal gatherings, and can be broken in
half to make it easier to handle. The key to eating it is not to
butter or season too much at once. Whether to eat across the cob or
around it is a matter of personal choice; either method will work.
Focus on only a few rows or a section at once buttering, salting,
eating  and then repeat. This keeps the mess on your hands and face
to a minimum. POTATOES ~~~~~~~~ Potato chips and shoestring potatoes
are eaten with your fingers, unless the shoe strings are puddled in
gravy, in which case you use a fork. Small French fries can also be
eaten with your fingers, but using a fork is preferable. Cut the
fries with your fork if they are too big to manage easily, and never
dangle a large one on your fork and nibble away at it. Ketchup is put
on the side of your plate, and the fries are dipped into it, either
using your fingers or spearing bite- size pieces with a fork. Baked
potatoes are often served already slit. If not, cut across the top
with a knife, open the potato wider with your fingers or a fork, and
add butter or sour cream and chives, salt and pepper, a little at a
time. You may eat the skin as you go along. SALAD ~~~~~ Salad is
traditionally eaten with a fork. However, oversize pieces should be
cut in order to avoid having them spring off your fork. Historically,
a steel knife stained black was used for salads and fruit, but
stainless steel has changed the etiquette. A wedge of iceberg lettuce
should always be eaten with a knife and fork. When the salad is
served at the same time as your main course, don't transfer it onto
your plate. If no salad plate is provided, put the salad on your
butter plate, to the side of your main plate. A piece of bread or a
roll is often used against the fork to aid in pushing the salad onto
it. Playing with Your Food - Bon Appetit - Gourmet

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-18-95

