Title: The Great Unturkey
Categories: Vegetarian, Holiday
Yield: 8 servings
============================
-=======
tb H E   G R E A T   U N T U R
-K E Y
To find a shapely squash of the right size and shape for this, try a
farmer's market. INGREDIENTS: 5 lb Squash (2.5kg) [buttercup, corn,
red curry or pumpkin] 1/2 c Brown Lentils 1 ea Onion; chopped 1 ea
Bay Leaf 1/2 c  Brown Rice 1/2 c Millet 1 tb Vegetable Oil 1 ea
Garlic clove; minced 1 lg Rib Celery; chopped 6 oz Broccoli florets
(175g) [2 cups] 1 tb Soy Sauce 1 tb Fresh Sage <OR> 1 ts. Dried Sage
1 ts Celery Seed 1 ts Fresh Thyme; chopped <OR> 1/4 ts. dried Thyme X
Salt and Pepper (to taste) 1/2 c Almonds or Cashews; chopped 2 tb
Sunflower Seeds (optional) GRAVY: 1/4 c Vegetable Oil 1 sm Onion 1 ea
Garlic clove; minced 1 tb Fresh Rosemary; chopped <OR> 1 ts. dried
Rosemary 1/4 c All-Purpose Flour 3 c Vegetable Stock, homemade or
from cubes X Salt and Pepper (to taste) DIRECTIONS: In preheated 300F
oven, bake whole squash 1 hour. Cool slightly; cut circle in top and
remove "lid". With spoon, scoop out seeds and pulp. Set aside.
Meanwhile, in small saucepan combine lentils, 1/4 cup chopped onion
and bay leaf; cover with 2 cups water. Bring to boil, reduce heat and
simmer, covered, 1 hour. Discard bay leaf. In separate saucepan,
combine rice with 1 cup water, bring to boil, reduce heat and simmer
45 minutes. In another saucepan, simmer millet with 1 cup water,
covered, 20 minutes or until water is absorbed. Heat oil in large
skillet overmedium heat. Add remaining onion, garlic and celery; cook
about 4 minutes or until softened. Stir in lentils plus any remaining
liquid, broccoli, soy sauce, sage, celery seed, thyme, salt and
pepper; bring just to boil. Add rice, millet, almonds or cashews and
sunflower seeds, if using, stirring just until combined. Taste
stuffing; adjust seasoning. Stuff squash with as much stuffing as
possible. If any remains, place in greased loaf pan and bake,
covered, along with squash. Place "lid" back on squash; set upright
in roastingpan. Bake in preheated 350F oven 1hour or until squash is
tender when tested with fork. Meanwhile, prepare gravy. Hat oil in in
saucepan over medium heat. Stir in onion, garlic and rosemary; cook 5
minutes or until softened but not browned. Add flour, stirring to
make a paste. Gradually whisk in vegetable stock until smooth.
Increase heat, bring to boil and cook, stirring, about 3 minutes or
until thickened. Add salt and pepper. Serve unturkey in wedges and
pass gravy. Makes 8-10 servings. Source: Sharing The Harvest Perfect
Way To Give Thanks in Cutting Edge column by Marion Kane in Toronto
Star (4 October, 1995) Transcribed By: Sam Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-04-95

