Title: Your Basic Pumpkin Pie
Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Vegetables, Holiday
Yield: 6 servings
No Ingredients Found
Y O U R   B A S I C   P U M P K I N   P I E
===========================================

An all-Canadian version made with maple syrup. You can substitute corn
syrup or brown sugar (both are less expensive); if using the later,
increase milk to 1 cup. Canned evaporated milk (regular or low-fat) or
light cream can be used instead of milk. Great crowned with any of
our 3 toppings. (see below) 1 cn Pumpkin Puree (14 oz/398 ml) [1 3/4
cups] 2 ea Eggs 3/4 c Milk 3/4 c Maple Syrup 1 ts Cinnamon; ground
1/2 ts Ground Ginger 1/2 ts EACH: Ground Cloves, Nutmeg and Salt 9 in
Unbaked Pie Shell In bowl, whisk together pumpkin, eggs, milk, maple
syrup, cinammon, ginger, cloves, nutmeg and salt until smooth. Pour
into pie shell; bake in preheated 375F oven about 45 minutes or until
almost set but slightly soft in center. Cool completely before
serving. Makes 6 servings. S O U R C R E A M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Absolutely my favorite, this reminds me of classic cheesecake
topping. A cinch to make, pour it over your pumpkin pie just after
baking. 3/4 c Sour Cream 2 tb Granulated Sugar Combine sour cream and
sugar; spread over hot, baked pie, leaving a 1/2-inch border around
edges uncovered. Return to oven for about 7 minutes until just set. M
E R I N G U E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ If your pie fillingcalls for 3 or more
eggs, just use the yolks and reserve the whites to make this topping.
This goes over your hot baked pie, adding height and a great contrast
in textures. 3 ea Egg Whites 1 ts Lemon Juice 1/2 c Granulated Sugar
1/2 ts Vanilla In bowl, beat egg whites and lemon juice until frothy.
Gradually add sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until stiff but
not dry. Beat in vanilla. Cover hot, baked pie with meringue,
creating attractive peaks. Return to 375F oven for about 8 minutes or
until topping is golden. S O U R C R E A M S P I D E R ' S W E B
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Create this attractive,
impressive design by incorporating it into the pie's unbaked filling
++ it cooks right in. 2 tb Sour Cream 2 tb Granulated Sugar Combine
sour cream and sugar; place in small pipingbag with large round tip
or plastic mustard/ketchup bottle. On unbaked pumpkin filling, pipe a
spiral, starting at outer edge and finishing at center. Using small
paring knife, draw shallow line through filling and topping from
outer edge to center; repeat at 7 evenly-spaced intervals around pie.
Between each of the 8 lines draw another line from center to outer
edge. This will create the spider web effect. Bake pie according to
recipe. Source: Prize Pies in Food column by Marion Kane (food
editor) in Toronto Star (4 October, 1995) Transcribed By: Sam
Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-04-95

