Title: Pantry Items Used In Ready, Set, Cook
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
Text
REFRIGERATOR ITEMS:  Butter; eggs; raspberry & strawberry preserves;
heavy cream; milk; mayonnaise; sour cream; yogurt; ketchup; Parmesan
cheese; herbs in jars:  rosemary, parsley, thyme, cilantro.

PRODUCE:  Potatoes:  red, Yukon Gold, baking; oranges; lemons; limes;
garlic; onions.

PANTRY ITEMS:  Confectioner's sugar in a shaker; corn oil; cider
vinegar; honey; olive oil; balsamic vinegar; maple syrup; vegetable
oil; red wine vinegar; Worcestershire sauce; soy sauce; canola oil;
white vinegar; enriched rice; Irish tea; cocoa; canned whole
tomatoes; tomato sauce; tomato paste; canned whole plum tomatoes;
canned chunky tomatoes; canned stewed tomatoes; canned kidney beans;
canned chickpeas; packaged dry biscuits (thick crackers that can be
crumbled); light brown sugar; corn starch; 10 X confectioner's sugar;
yellow cornmeal; can of Crisco; baking powder; raisins; instant
coffee; instant espresso; salt; flour; sugar; baking soda; beef
boullion; chicken boullion; vegetable boullion; Dijon mustard;
chicken stock; beef stock; spaghetti.

DRIED SPICES AND SEASONINGS:  Thyme; white pepper; cardamom; cayenne;
crystallized ginger; whole caraway seeds; oregano; cinnamon; vanilla
extract; almond extract; tabasco sauce; chili powder; tumeric; ground
nutmeg; garlic powder; sage; dill weed; whole sesame seeds; whole
black pepper; fine ground black pepper; bay leaf; ground coriander;
poppy seed; tarragon; ground allspice; ground cumin; ground clove; 5
spice mixture; ground ginger; chives; cinnamon sticks; rosemary;
fennel; paprika

