Title: TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE (YORKSHIRE PUDDING W/SAUSAGE
Categories: Breakfast, British
Yield: 2 Servings
1 c  Flour
1 c  Milk
2    Eggs
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Black pepper
1 lb Sausages
1/3 c  Water
In a food processor fitted with the steel blade or in a blender, blend
flour, milk, eggs, salt, and pepper for 5 seconds. Turn off the motor
and with a rubber spatula, scrape down the sides of the container.
Blend the batter for 20 seconds more, transfer it to a bowl and let
it stand, covered with plastic wrap, for one hour. In a skillet,
combine sausages, pierced lightly with a needle, and water. Bring the
water to a boil over moderately high heat and boil the sausages,
turning them, until the water is evaporated.  Saute the sausages,
adding oil if necessary to keep them from sticking, for 7 minutes or
until they are golden brown. Transfer the sausages with a slotted
spoon to a plate, pour 3 T. of fat from the skillet into an 8" square
baking pan and heat the pan in a preheated very hot oven (450^) for
two minutes.  Stir in the batter, pour one fourth of it into the pan
and bake it in the very hot oven for two minutes, or until it is set.
Arrange the sausages on the batter, pour the remaing batter over
them, and bake the mixture for 15 minutes. Reduce heat to moderate
(375^) and bake the mixture for 10-15 minutes more, or until it is
puffed and golden brown. Serve the dish immediately with Dijon-style
mustard, if desired.

