Title: TRUFFLE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS~ PART 2
Categories: Candies
Yield: 1 Servings
Text only
Use these instructions to complete "White Coffee Truffles,"
"Chocolate-Hazelnut Truffles," "Mocha Truffles," and "Pistachio
Truffles."

Chill and form the truffles: 1. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
Alternatively, freeze for 2 hours. (The mixture may be prepared in
advance to this point and frozen for up to 3 months.) When you are
ready to form the truffles after a long freezing, place them in the
refrigertor overnight; otherwise, the mixture will be too firm to
form into balls.

2. Line a baking sheet with wax paper. Scoop the truffle mixture into
rounded teaspoonfuls and drop the mounds onto the paper. Dust your
hands with either confectioners' sugar or cocoa, and roll the mounds
into smooth balls. Place in the freezer for 1 hour or overnight.

Make the coating: 3. Place the chopped chocolate in a microwave-safe
medium glass bowl and heat on high power for 1 minute. Stir until
smooth. If the chocolate is still fairly solid, heat for another 30
seconds. Stir the mixture until smooth. If there still seem to be
several unmelted pieces of chocolate, heat again for about 20
seconds, and then stir. Be careful, as the chocolate should not get
too hot.

4. Stir in other coating ingredient if used (ground coffee or
praline).

Coat the truffles:

5. Remove truffles from the freezer. Drop a truffle into the chocolate
coating. Using 2 forks, roll it around to coat it thoroughly, then
lift, letting the excess chocolate drip off. Return to the baking
sheet. If desired, use a fork to drip a thin, decorative swirl of
choclate over the top. Repeat with the remaining truffles.

6. Let the truffles set in the freezer for about 1 hour. Refrigerate
in an airtight container for up to 2 weeks or freeze for up to 6
months. Remove from the freezer about 20 minutes before serving.

Source: Corby Kummer's "Joy of Coffee"

