Title: WHIPPED CREAM
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 6 Servings
1 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Fine granulated sugar (opt)
1 ts Vanilla
Cream for whipping should be at least 1 day old.  It can be kept in
the refrigerator in a sealed container for more than a week. Before
being whipped it should be very cold. In hot weather the bowl and
beater should also be chilled.

Using a well chilled bowl, or setting the bowl over ice, beat cream
with an electric mixer or rotary egg beater. As cream begins to
thicken, beat in sugar and vanilla. Continue beating until stiff. If
not to be served at once, place in refrigerator, where it may be kept
2-3 hours.

The Yield From A Cup of Cream Can Be Increased (with a very slight
difference in texture) by adding 1 egg white to each cup of whipped
and flavored cream.  Beat the egg white until it holds soft peaks.
Sprinkle in 1 1/2 tablespoon granulated sugar.  Continue beating til
very stiff. Fold into whipped cream.

To Prepare Whipped Cream A Day or Two Ahead of Time: Soften 1/2
teaspoon granulated gelatin (for each cup of cream to be whipped) in
a small metal cup containing a tablespoon of cold water. Set cup in a
pan of boiling water or over low heat, until gelatin dissolves and
looks clear. Stirring is unneccessary. Beat dissolved gelatin into
the cream just as cream begins to thicken.

Gelatin will also give whipped cream extra firmness so it can be used
for decorating with a pastry bag.

Flavoring Whipped Cream To each cup of whipped cream, 1 of the
following flavorings can be added: 2 tb sifted dark, unsweetened
cocoa 2 4 tb rum, cognac, or any liquer 1/2 c nougat powder 1 ts
instant coffee powder

Fold flavorings into cream AFTER it has been whipped.

From: _The Art of Fine Baking_, Paula Peck, copyright 1961

