Title: WHITE MOUSSE CAKE
Categories: Cales
Yield: 10 Servings
Los Angeles Times Cookbook
Store-bought genoise or plain sponge, angel food or pound cake may be
substituted. Created by: John Sedlar, St. Estephe, Manhattan Beach,
Calif. Genoise: 6 eggs, separated 3/4 C sugar 1/4 C flour 2 T Mexican
vanilla or 2 t vanilla Mousse: 1 C sugar 1 C lemon juice 1 C water
Peel of 3 oranges, 3 grapefruits and 3 lemons, shredded 1 lb white
chocolate 3 C whipping cream 1/2 C pine nuts, chopped or whole
Powdered sugar Grease, flour and line bottom of 15 1/2- x 10 1/2-inch
jellyroll pan with waxed paper. Beat egg yolks with 3/4 cup sugar
until mixture falls in ribbon when beaters are lifted. Stir in 1/4
cup flour and vanilla. Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry. Fold
into yolk mixture. Turn into prepared pan, spreading evenly. Bake at
350F 20 minutes. Cool. To make mousse, combine 1 cup sugar, lemon
juice and water in saucepan. Add citrus peels and cook until tender.
Drain peel, reserve syrup for another use. Using half of chocolate,
make chocolate curls with vegetable peeler. Place curls on waxed
paper-lined tray and freeze to harden. Meanwhile, melt remaining
chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water. Cool.
Whip cream until stiff. Alternately fold half of chocolate, alf of
peel and half of pine nuts into cream. Add remaining melted
chocolate, half of remaining peel and half of remaining pine nuts
until incorporated into cream. Cut genoise crosswise into 4 equal
rectangular layers, (If using purchased loaf cake, split into 4
layers.) Spread some of white chocolate mousse on first layer. Top
with another cake layer. Spread with more mousse. Repeat with next 2
layers, spreading mousse over top and sides. Cover top and sides with
frozen chocolate curls. Delicately place reserved peel and nuts over
chocolate curls. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. (C) 1992 The Los
Angeles Times =====

