Title: WHY CAN FOODS?
Categories: Canning, Information
Yield: 1 Guide  Canning can be a safe and economical way to preserve quality food at
home. Disregarding the value of your labor, canning homegrown food
may save you half the cost of buying commercially canned food.
Canning favorite and special products to be enjoyed by family and
friends is a fulfilling experience and a source of pride for many
people.

Many vegetables begin losing some of their vitamins when harvested.
Nearly half the vitamins may be lost within a few days unless the
fresh produce is cooled or preserved. Within 1 to 2 weeks, even
refrigerated produce loses half or more of some of its vitamins. The
heating process during canning destroys from one-third to one-half of
vitamins A and C, thiamin, and riboflavin. Once canned, additional
losses of these sensitive vitamins are from 5 to 20 percent each
year. The amounts of other vitamins, however, are only slightly lower
in canned compared with fresh food. If vegetables are handled
properly and canned promptly after harvest, they can be more
nutritious than fresh produce sold in local stores.

The advantages of home canning are lost when you start with poor
quality fresh foods; when jars fail to seal properly; when food
spoils; and when flavors, texture, color and nutrients deteriorate
using prolonged storage.

======================================================= === * USDA
Agriculture Information Bulletin No. 539 (rev. 1994) * Meal-Master
format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

