Title: ZEPPOLE
Categories: Pastries, Ethnic
Yield: 1 Servings
2 c  Water +
10 oz Sugar
3 tb Oil
1/2 ts Salt
2    Bay leaves
2 c  Sifted flour
2 tb Semolina
4    Egg yolks
1/4 c  Marsala ( sweet )
Olive oil
Powdered sugar
Zeppole comes from the word zeppelin. Zeppole means fried " puffs "
When cooked properly they should be heavenly and so light you might
expect them to float away. this particular version comes from Naples,
Italy.There are many zeppole recipes, this being more of a fried puff
pastry opposed to other zeppole which are more breadlike.

Mix water, sugar, oil and bay leaf in heavy saucepan and bring to a
boil. Mix flour and semolina together and dump into boiling water all
at once. Remove from heat and begin stirring with wooden spoon until
it forms a mass. Return to lowest heat and cook 5 minutes stirring.
Remove from heat, discard bay leaf and add yolks 1 at a time beating
vigorously after each addition. add marsala and beat dough until
satiny. You can use a food processor to prepare this dough if you
wish to make the above steps go faster. Grease a countertop or board
with olive oil and pat down dough into a pancake. Flatten dough and
fold sides over on itself so there are 3 layers. flatten dough again
and repeat folding 5 times more. Take about 1/3 of dough and roll out
to a thickness of your thumb and make each piece into a ring. Make 3
or 4 at a time and slip them into boiling oil. when you turn them,
prick them with a sharp knife or fork in a few places. Drain on brown
paper and serve warm, dusted with confectionery sugar.

