Title: ZESTY LEMON GRANITA
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 c  Lemon juice
1/2 ts Lemon zest
1/2 c  Sugar
TO COOK:  Bring 2 cups water to a boil in medium nonreactive
saucepan. Add the lemon juice, zest, and sugar. Simmer to blend
flavors, about 30 minutes.

TO FREEZE:  TRADITIONAL METHOD Transfer syrup to medium nonreactive
bowl; cool to room temperature. Freeze, stirring every 30 minutes to
incorporate frozen portion of mixture back into the syrup.  As
mixture freezes, scrape spoon across the nearly frozen mixture to
break it up. Repeat scraping process every 30 minutes until mixture
is just solid, 3 to 4 hours.

TO FREEZE:  NO-STIR METHOD Transfer syrup to a nonreactive container
large enough for mixture to come 3/4 inch up the side. Cool to room
temperature and then freeze solid. Remove from freezer and allow to
stand at room temperature for 5 minutes.  Invert pan onto cutting
surface. Remove pan and cut frozen mixture into small pieces with a
metal pastry scraper or large knife.  Chop small pieces into tiny
granules. Can return granita to freezer for up to 2 hours before
serving.

GARNISH:  Cut the zest of a large lemon into fine julienne strips.
Cover with water and boil for 5 minutes; drain. Bring 1 cup sugar,
1/3 cup corn syrup and 1/3 cup water to boil. Remove from heat, stir
in zest, and let stand for 30 minutes.  Transfer zest to wire rack.
After 15 minutes, when zest feels dry, roll it in additional sugar.
Can be stored in an airtight container for up to 1 week.

SERVING:  Scoop granita into chilled serving glasses garnish with
candied lemon zest and serve immediately.

Makes 6 servings.

[COOKS; JUNE 1989] Posted by Fred Peters.

