Title: CINCINNATI CHILI (1955)
Categories: Chili
Yield: 1 Servings
-Cincinnati Chili (1955)
This chili recipe was served in the dining room for management
employees of Proctor and Gamble in Ivorydale, OH.

15 lbs lean ground hamburger 3 lbs white suet 3 lbs chopped onions
1/2 lb chopped bell pepper 3/4 cup salt 1/2 cup sugar 1 tbsp black
pepper 1/2 tsp cayenne pepper 1/2 cup chili pepper 2 tbsp ground
cumin 2 #10 cans tomato puree 1 gal. beef stock 4 #10 cans red kidney
beans

Saute meat, suet, and seasonings.  Add spices, puree, and stock and
simmer for 1-1/2 hours with cover.  Add beans and thicken to desired
consistency with flour or cracker meal. Adjust salt and pepper.
Usually served with chopped  raw  onions  and shredded Cheddar cheese
on the side.

Serves about 100

TEXAS CHILI POWDER:

76 ozs. ground dried chili peppers 13 ozs. ground cumin 4 ozs. garlic
powder 2 ozs. onion powder 3 ozs. ground oregano 1/2 oz. cayenne
pepper 1-1/2 ozs. black pepper 1/2 oz. ground coriander

Blend well.  Makes 100 ounces.

ABILENE CHILI (1958):

This recipe comes from a leading restaurant in West Texas where chili
is taken very seriously.

30 lbs. ground chuck and cow round 2 qts. chopped onion 1 oz. garlic
powder 1/2 cup salt 1 lb. Morton's chili powder 1 gal. water 1 gal.
tomato juice 1/2 oz. cayenne pepper equal parts of flour, cracker
meal, and corn masa (about 1-1/4 lbs. total)

Brown  meat with onions and seasonings.  Add water and tomato juice
and simmer 2-1/2 hours with cover. Then thicken with flour, cracker
meal and corn masa mix to desired thickness. Boiled pinto beans are
usually served on the side.

Serves about 55.

All of these Warren Leruth recipes come from Phil Johnson's New
Orleans Chefs Cookbook.

I  have  never tried any of these recipes myself,  but I have found
the recipes  I've  tried from  this book to be very successful.
Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.40

