Title: CLASSICAL PUFF PASTRY
Categories: Baker, Breads
Yield: 4 Servings
3  1/2 c  all-purpose flour
1  1/2 ts salt
1 lb Unsalted butter, cold
1 1/4 c  Ice water
Combine the flour and salt in the bowl of a food processor and
process few seconds to combine.  Cut 2 ounces (4 tablespoons) of the
butter into small pieces and process with the flour until there are
no lumps and the mixture is the texture of cornmeal.

Pour half the ice water in a large bowl and turn the flour mixture
onto it. Sprinkle the remaining water over it, reserving one
tablespoon. Transfer the mixture to a large mixing bowl, drizzle the
ice water evenly over it and toss like a salad until the dough comes
together in a ragged mass. Add the remaining water if necessary.
Cover in plastic wrap and chill.

Meanwhile, place the remaining butter between layers of plastic wrap
and pound with a rolling pin to make malleable.  Place it between two
sheets of plastic wrap and, using your hands or a rolling pin, shape
it into a 6-inch square.

Remove the dough from the fridge, lightly flour the work surface and,
using either your hands or a rolling pin, shape the mass into 12-inch
square. Place the butter on the dough catty-corner and fold the edges
of the dough into the center to enclose it.

Lightly flour the surface of the dough and roll it into a rectangle
measuring about 12 inches high x 26 inches wide.  If the dough sticks,
loosen it underneath with a long flexible metal palette knife and
scrape off any butter sticking to the work surface.  Brush off any
excess flour. Fold the dough into thirds and turn it 90 degrees, so
that seams are parallel to the table's edge.  This is called a
"turn". Lightly flour and roll it out again to about 12 x 26 inches.
Brush off the excess flour and again fold it into thirds. Place the
dough on a sheet tray, cover it with a plastic bag and refrigerate
for 20 to 30 minutes.

Repeat this, giving the dough two more turns, each time rolling it
out to 12 x 26 inches.  Refrigerate for another 20 or 30 minutes,
then give the dough 2 final turns.  There are six turns in all.

Lightly roll it to flatten and even it.  Wrap it in plastic wrap or a
bag and chill for at least two hours before using it.  It can be kept,
refrigerated, for up to 3 days, or frozen for up to 3 months.

Yield:  2- 3/4 pounds of dough

To roll pastry:  (for home size 11 x 17-inch sheet trays)

For thinly rolled dough (1/16-inch) used to make little pizzas start
with 15 ounces (1/3 of the recipe).  For thickly rolled dough
(3/8-inch) used for everything else, start with 22 ounces (1/2
recipe).

Line an 11 x 17-inch sheet tray with parchment paper.  On a floured
table, roll the rectangle of dough to a length of 15 inches and a
width of 10 inches.  Dust off any excess flour.  Roll the dough up
onto the rolling pin and transfer it to the sheet tray.  Using a
10-inch rolling pin and rolling gently from the center out, roll the
dough to fit the tray. Make sure it is even - with no lumpy edges.
Rolling lightly and gently enables you to keep it even.

Shapes to cut out of the 3/8-inch thick dough:

Bouchee:  Cut 2 (3-1/2-inch) rounds of dough.  Cut a 2-1/4-inch
circle out of the second round.  Egg wash the first round.  Place the
ring from the second round over the first so that the edges line up.
Dock the edges and center with a fork.  Thin inner circle can be
baked as well and used for a lid.

Bouchee made from special cutter:  Use and cutter made especially for
this purpose.  It has two cutting edges - one inside and shorter than
the other that scores, rather than cuts the dough.

Criss-cross Tartlet:  Cut a 5-inch square.  Fold it into a triangle
and cut from each edge towards the apex, stopping about 1/2-inch
short of the apex. The cut should be about 1/2-inch from the edge.
Open it up to the square and place on a cookie sheet.  Egg wash the
edges. Bring one point over to the opposite corner of the inner
square and press. Bring the opposite point over and press.  Press
along the rim to seal. Dock rim and center.

Puff Strip:  From a sheet tray of frozen dough, cut a rectangular
piece 8" wide and the length of the sheet tray.  Transfer it to a
paper lined cookie sheet.  Using a pizza wheel, cut a 3/4" strip from
each edge. Egg wash the edges of the center piece and flip the cut
strips onto the egg washed edge. Dock the 2 rims with a fork, then
dock down the center.

Vol-au-Vent:  Similar to above, but round.  Press whatever size round
you want into the dough on the sheet tray.  Lift and cut along the
circular impression with a pizza wheel.  Center another round, and
inch or so smaller in diameter than the first over the circle of
dough and press lightly.  Remove and cut along this line.  Egg was
the edge, as above, and cut through the outer rim in one place. Place
the rim over the center circle, lining up the edges.  Dock the rim
with a fork, then dock the center.  Bake 20 to 25 minutes in a
preheated 425 degree F. oven.

BAKERS' DOZEN PEGGY CULLEN SHOW #BD1A40

