Title: Archer Teachers Great Fish
Categories: Fish
Yield: 8 servings
3 lb Fish fillets
Flour
Oil
MMMMM---------------------BASIC FISH BATTER--------------------------
3 c  Boxed pancake mix
3 c  Club soda
The simplicity of imitating the original Arthur Treacher Fish is to
whip together the boxed pancake mix (used dry from the box) with the
club soda, till the batter becomes the consistency of buttermilk. You
may have to add a little more club soda to achieve this consistency.
(Perhaps a 1/2 cup more will do!)  Set it aside.

Cut 2 to 3 pound fish fillets each in half, making a triangle shape
of each half.  Moisten each in a bit of water.  Shake off excess
water & coat lightly in plain flour.  Let pieces dry 3 or 4 minutes
on waxed paper, without touching each other.  The floured coating
acts as an adhesive, so that when you dip them each into the wet
batter, the coating will not break apart nor fall off during frying.

With tip of small sharp knife, pierce 1 floured piece of fish at a
time & dip to coat evenly but lightly in prepared fish batter.  Drop
at once into 3" depth of hot oil (385 - 400 degrees F) and fry only a
few minutes each side, turning only once to brown each side.  Do NOT
use tongs to remove fish from hot oil, or coating will break and fall
apart. Spear pieces 1 at a time with tip of sharp knife & place on
cookie sheet (ungreased) and keep pieces warm in 300 degrees F oven
till all pieces have been fried.

Serves 6 to 8.

The CHIPS are imitated by cutting frozen "cottage Fries" each in half
to a crescent shape & fried in the same hot oil, after frying the
fish, just as you would frozen french fries.  OR prepare your own
fries.

Source:  Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1976 reprinted 1985
Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-20-95

