Title: Durian    "The Cheese That Grows on a Tree"
Categories: Information, Fruit, Asian
Yield: 1 informatio
MMMMM----------------------DURIAN OR DURION---------------------------
A tall fruit tree (Durio zibethinus) of the Chocolate family, is
found in the East Indian islands with leaves resembling those of the
cherry and with large bunches of pale-yellow flowers. Its fruit,
called durian or durion, is about the size of a coconut and has a
hard thick rind covered with soft spines. The cream-colored meat is
flavorsome, but has a bad odor. The fruit contains ten or twelve
seeds each as large as a walnut. When roasted the seeds taste like
chestnuts. In Indian markets, the durian commands a higher price than
any other native fruit. One tree yields about 200 fruit each year.

Grown in the Philippines, Malaysia, and southern Thailand, they are
seldom exported. The smell of the durian has been described as
"sewagelike" or like that of a "rotten onion."  According to Alfred
Russell Wallace, "It has a rich butterlike custard highly flavored
with almonds, but intermingled with wafts of flavor that call to mind
cream cheese, onion sauce, brown sherry, and other incongruities." No
one is neutral about about this fruit.  There are people who like its
strong flavor and penetrating aroma and cannot stop eating it once
started. There are others, not under its spell, who will not approach
within yards of the opened fruit and will steer clear of anyone who
has eaten it. Its taste is most like a robust overripe Roquefort.
Raefel Steinberg writes that some airlines in the region specifically
forbid passengers to take fresh durian aboard an airplane, and in an
airconditioned hotel in the Phillipines he saw a printed notice to
the effect that "Firearms and durian fruit are prohibited in the
rooms."

This large, globe shaped fruit has a hard, yellow-to-green and heavily
spiked shell over a fleshy segregated interior of soft, sweet flesh.
When ripe it has a strong, nauseating odor which makes it a difficult
fruit to stock. It is, therefore, rarely available fresh. Even in
Malaysia and Indonesia where it is grown, it reaches only selected
fruit stands for its two annual seasons. Its flavor is intense and
can best be described for its similarity to tropical fruit salad.
Eating it fresh can be an acquired taste. It is used raw in ice
cream, desserts and to make candy. it is sometimes fried, cooked in a
skin over charcoal or steamed in the same way as breadfruit. A
yellowing of the skin indicates the fruit is ripe. Durian lovers are
known to open the prickly soccer ball-sized fruit with gusto and dig
out with their fingers the sticky yello pulp while telling stories
about the durian's supposed aphrodisacal values.

In Sumatra, cooks prepare a chile pepper-hot stock, "Sambal".  One
version, "Sambal Tempojak"  is made from fermented durian fruit,
coconut milk, and a collection of spicy ingredients.

Durian is sold in cans or bottles, packed in sugar syrup. Each
segment of flesh has one or several large black, shiney seeds which,
in Indonesia, are roasted and eaten as snacks.  The petals from
durian flowers are eaten in the Batak provinces, while in the
Moluccas islands the peel is used as fuel to smoke fish.

It is also known as "ambetan", "dooren" (Indonesian), doorian
(Malaysia) and "turian" (Thailand, meaning "king of fruit").

=========================> Notes and Credits <====================

"Funk & Wagnalls Standard Reference Encyclopedia", 1969 by Reader's
Digest Books, Inc.

"The People's Almanac" by David Wallechinsky and Irving Wallace
Doubleday & Company, Inc. 1975  ISBN 0-385-04186-1

"The Encyclopedia of Asian Food and Cooking", by Jacki Passmore,
Hearst Books, 1991  ISBN 0-688-10448-7

"Foods of the World, Pacific and Southwest Asian Cooking", by Rafael
Steinberg, Time Life Books, 1972, 70-114231

Researched by Dorothy Hair 5/23/94 Re-U/L to Cooking by Burt Ford.
7/95 Submitted By BURTON FORD   On   07-19-95

