Title: Fish & chips batter #2
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 1 servings
Flour
Salt
Baking powder
Water
Well, I am not English but my wife hails from Suffolk England.  My
brother-in-law actually ran a fish and chips shop in Lowestoft  and
being part of the family was quickly shanghied into working in the
shop.

The batter is really simple.  Use self rising flour and just a little
salt to taste.  If you like, you can add a little baking powder (this
actually gives you a little more scraps).

Mix the flour with water until you get a thin batter (a little
thinner than pancake batter.)

Heat your oil until it is just beginning to smoke (around 375 - 425).
When the oil is hot, lightly bread the fish in flour. Immediately dip
into your batter mix and then put it straight into the pan (while
still dripping.) When the fish is golden brown, remove and let drain.
I use a cake cooling grate.  this allows any excess oil to drip OFF
the fish and not just to the bottom.

Serve with fresh cut and fried chips, a good Malt vinegar, and salt to
taste. If you want thicker breading on the fish, make a thicker
batter. I prefer a light batter which gives you a thin crunchy
breading.

The english will travel 40 miles to a fish and chips shop which has
the type batter they prefer.  Traditionally, they used beef dripping
(beef lard) to fry in.  It did not leave the fish quite as oily as
some of the new vegetable oils are.  the oil must also stay hot so it
cooks the fish and batter and does not have a chance to absorb into
it and make it oily.

Fish could cook in about 4 to 5 minutes depending on how thick your
fillets are.

Submitted By BOB KNOWLES   MSG#: 187
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95

