Title: Guinness Duck ala Leipzig
Categories: Poultry, Scot/irish
Yield: 2 servings   Sure. Take 2 duck **** (it's shorter than spelling breasts) filets and
pound a tad. Rub with a fine filligre of olive oil, garlic, sage and
thyme. Set aside to marinate. In a bowl, combine 1/2 cup honey, some
cinnamon ("some" according to taste 1/2 to 1 tsp.), allspice,
coriander, a wee smite of sea salt, black pepper, paprika, nutmeg and
1/2 to 1 pint of Guinness. Slosh together, heating gently, and let
marry in fridge for an hour or so. Take either pork sausage
(breakfast variety) or other fine sausage (boudin is preferred down
here in humidity valley; back home, bratwurst would have been just
the ticket) roll each duck [breast] around a sausage and pin,
viciously, with toothopicks (the wood variety, you knucklehead, not
plastic...) Brown each duck [breast] in a shallow pan with some
minced shallots, olive oil, shitaake mushrooms, and garlic. Just
brown a bit, to loosen up some of that ever present duck fat. Remove
duck [breasts] to a shallow baking pan and toss, vicariously, into a
400 degree (Farenheit, not Kelvin) oven for 15 minutes. Be sure to
decant the oil and effluvia toss, vicariously, into a 400 degree
(Farenheit, not Kelvin) oven for 15 minutes. Be sure to decant the
oil and effluvia from pan first. After 5 minutes in the oven, dredge
the pan and add 1 can frozen blackberries or raspberries over the
ducky [breasts], return to heat. After 5-10 more minutes, slather the
duck with the pan juice and add 1/2 the honey-Guinness mixture over
the ducks. Let cook for 5-10 more minutes (it's a lot of [fooling]
around, but well worth it...) then spoon the remaining mixture (-5
tablespoons) over the duck. Return to oven for last 5-10 minutes.

Remove duck from oven, prepare plate with snow peas, ginger fingers,
julienne carrots and turnip, place 1 duck [breast] on plate, and
spoon over both some oven tray juice (with fruit) and some of the
leftover Guinness-honey mixture.

Sheer bliss will then ensue.

Damn near makes one want to turn Irish.
Submitted By DAN CEPPA   On   07-07-95

