Title: FRENCH FRIES
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 1 Recipe
Potatoes
Water
White vinegar
Oil
Crisco
To make French Fries at home, use only long white Burbank Russets.
Peel and cut in half lengthwise.  It will be easier to manage them
when you cut each then into strips with a sharp knife. Place cut
sides of potatoes on a board and remove a thing slice from each end
and a slice from the rounded longside of it, too. You know have
almost a rectangle shape to work with. Slice this into 1/4" thick
strips. Place in a deep refrigerator container.

Mix 1 quart water with 1/2 cup white vinegar, repeating it until you
have enough to cover potatoes. Cover the container and chill the
submerged poratoes several hours. This draws out the starch that
makes a fried potato, otherwise limp and holds the grease. Drain them
well on paper toweling.

Drop a few at a time, using a French frying basket, into 425 degrees
F -- oil, at least 4" deep in heavy 2 1/2 quart saucepan. Let them
"blanche" in the oil rather than fry completely, removing the
potatoes after 1 minute. At once drop them into a freezer container
or on a cookie sheet & place in your freezer for 10 minutes. Return
them to the oil to fry till golden brown at that time, draining them
well on paper toweling.

Salt them as you wish, which also helps to evaporate any excess
greease ont he finished potatoes.  Most of the salt will fall off
when the potatoes are transfered to serving plates.

If the oil is not hot enough the potatoes will be greasy. A good
combination is 1 pint corn oil to 1 cup Crisco shortening, using as
much as is needed for the amount you are preparing, keeping ti 4"
deep at
425    degrees F -- in the pan.

Source:  Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1976 reprinted 1985

