Title: FOLDING THE FLAG
Categories: Misc., Holidays
Yield: 1 Servings
Info
Though most commonly flown on flag holidays, such as Flag Day,
Independence Day, and Veteran's Day, the United States flag can be
displayed from sunrise to sunset on any day of the year-and at
nighttime, too, as long as it's properly illuminated.  When not on
display, it should be respectfully folded into the shape of a
three-cornered hat, emblematic of those worn by Colonial soldiers in
the Revolutionary War. It takes two people to do it properly. Both
should hold the flag waist-high, with its surface parallel to the
ground. (Maintain a secure hold throughout, and never allow any part
of the flag to touch the ground.) 1. Fold the flag in half
lengthwise, bringing the striped section over the canton (the blue
field of stars). 2. Fold it again lengthwise, bringing the canton to
the outside. 3. Make a triangular fold at the striped end, bringing
the folded edge over to meet the open edge.  4.  Fold the outer point
up, forming a second triangle. 5. to 11. Continue fold the flag in
this manner seven more times. The last triangular fold brings the red
and white stripes into the star-strewn blue field, symbolizing the
day's light vanishing into the darkness of the night. 12.  Tuck the
remaining flap into the pocket formed between the star and stripes.
Type in MMFormat by cjhartlin@msn.com Source: Martha Stewart Magazine

