Title: PARKER HOUSE FISH CHOWDER~ BOSTON~ 1873
Categories: Soups
Yield: 2 Servings
See text
"This recipe is unusual in two ways: it is remarkably 'dry,' and uses
raw, rather than fried, onions.  When made with the liquid content
called for, its consistency would be about that of corned-beef hash
and it could be heaped up on a plate.  In the following conversion to
a recipe for two persons, the liquid content is increased: 1 pound
cod, haddock, or similar fish; 1 medium-sized potato; 1 medium-sized
onion, 1/4 pound salt pork; 1 1/2 cups water; and 3/4 cup milk. Be
sure that the flame is very low under the covered pot. Have a fresh,
firm cod or haddock, a fish about 5 pounds is the best size.  Take a
saucepan large enough to hold a little more than you wish to make.
Cut salt pork in small squares about the size of dice, and fry quite
brown.  Lay in the same pan alternate layers of thin, sliced potatoes
first, then slices of fish, then broken water crackers, small fried
pork, shreds of raw onion, black pepper and salt to suit the taste.
Continue the layers until you have used up your material. Pour over
it the pork fat from the scraps and half a pint of water, to keep
from burning at the bottom.  Close the saucepan tight and set on the
fire. Cook slowly, without stirring, for 45 minutes, when it is ready
for the table. As some fish cook drier than others, if you do not
find the chowder thin enough to serve well in a tureen, add some
fresh milk just before taking up, and let it come to a boil."

