Title: PECAN-STUFFED FLANK STEAK
Categories: Beef
Yield: 1112 Servings  1 tablespoon butter or margarine 1/4 cup chopped mushrooms 1 minced
green onion/shallot 1/2 cup chopped pecans 2 tablespoon minced
parsley 3/4 cup bread cubes torn from day old bread Salt and pepper
to taste Big pinch of ground cardamom Big pinch of fresh/dried ginger
Pinch of ground cloves 1 egg, slightly beaten SAUCE: 1/3 cup orange
juice 1/2 cup beef bouillon, canned or made with a bouillon cube

Prepare the flank steak for stuffing by scoring in a diamond pattern
on both sides with a sharp knife, cutting no deeper than 1/2 inch.
Pound the steak on both sides with a meat mallet on a chopping block
until steak is thin enough to roll.

In a skillet, cook the onion and mushrooms in hot butter 2 minutes.
Turn off heat and add pecans, parsley, bread cubes, salt pepper,
cardamom, ginger, cloves and egg. Mix well and cool.

Season the flank steak with salt and pepper. Spread the cooled
stuffing over the pounded meat to within 1/2 inch of the edges.
Starting on a long side, roll closed and tie at 2-inch intervals with
kitchen string. Tie lengthwise if needed to hold the filling in.

Brown the roll on all sides in a teaspoon of margarine in a range-
top-proof casserole. Add orange juice and bouillon. COver pan and
roast in a 350 degree oven 1 1/2-2 hours, turning once halfway
through. Add liquid if pan dries out.

When the roll is tender (poke with a skewer), move to a serving
platter, remove strings and slice. Strain the pan juices, if desired,
and pour over the meat. Garnish platter with parsley.

Also good served cold. Allow to cool completely before slicing. Omit
pan juice when serving cold.

~End Recipe Export- -Begin Recipe Export- QuikBook version 0.96 Beta A

