Title: PIE FILLINGS
Categories: Information, Canning, Pies
Yield: 1 Text  General: The following fruit fillings are excellent and safe
products. Each canned quart makes one 8-inch to 9-inch pie. The
filling may be used as toppings on dessert or pastries. "Clear
Jel(tm)" is a chemically modified corn starch that produces excellent
sauce consistency even after fillings are canned and baked. Other
available starches break down when used in these pie fillings,
causing a runny sauce consistency. Clear Jel(tm) is increasingly
available among canning and freezing supplies in some stores. If you
cannot find it, ask your county Extension home economist about its
availability in your region.

Because the variety of fruit may alter the flavor of the fruit pie,
it is suggested that you first make a single quart, make a pie with
it, and serve. Then adjust the sugar and spices in the recipe to suit
your personal preferences. The amount of lemon juice should not be
altered, as it aids in controlling the safety and storage stability
of the fillings.

When using frozen cherries and blueberries, select unsweetened fruit.
If sugar has been added, rinse it off while fruit is frozen. Thaw
fruit, then collect, measure, and use juice from fruit to partially
replace the water specified in the recipe.  Use only 1/4 cup Clear
Jel(tm) per quart, or 1-3/4 cups for 7 quarts. Use fresh fruit in the
apple and peach pie fillings.

======================================================= ===== * USDA
Agriculture Information Bulletin No. 539 (rev. 1994) * Meal-Master
format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

