Title: PITA POCKET BREAD
Categories: Breads
Yield: 8 Servings
MMMMM------------------------LISA CRAWLEY-----------------------------
3/4 c  To 1 c warm water
1 pk Dry yeast
1 tb Sugar
2 3/4 c  Flour
1 ts Salt
1 ts Veg. oil
Combine 1/4 c water, yeast adn sugar. Stir to dissolve yeast and let
stand until bubbly, about 5 min. Fit porcessor w/ steel blade.
Measure flour, salt and oil into work bowl. Process on/off to mix.
Add yeast mixture to flour mixture. Process til blended, about 10
sec. Turn on processor and very slowly drizzle just enough remaining
water through feed tube into flour mixture so dough forms a ball that
cleans the sides of the bowl. Process until ball turns around bowl
about 25 times. Turn off processor and let dough stand 1-2 minutes.
Turn on processor and gradually drizzle in enough remaining water to
make dough soft, smooth, and satiny but not sticky. Process until
dough turns around bowl about 15 times. Let dough stand, covered, in
work bowl at rm. temp. until almost doubled, 45-60 min. Process
on/off to punch down. Turn dough onto lightly floured surface. Divide
dough into 8 equal parts. Shape each part into a ball. Roll out each
part into circle 6 inches in diameter and place on ungreased, floured
cookie sheet. Cover loosely w/ plastic wrap and let stand in warm
place until almost doubled, about 45 min. Heat oven to 500 degrees.
Bake until lightly browned and puffy, 5-7 min. Remove from cookie
sheet and place on paper toweling. Cool. FROM:FOOD PROCESSOR BREAD
BOOK/L.Crawley

