Title: The Great Gluten Turkey, Part Two
Categories: Vegetarian
Yield: 10 servings  continued from part one

Place the "turkey" in a preheated 350 degree oven and bake for 1 1/4
to 1 1/2 hours, basting every 15 minutes with the wine-margarine
mixture and the juces in the pan.  If it brown too much, cover loosly
with aluminum foil.

Carv as you would with a regular roast and accompany with stuffing.

PER SERVING:  514 CALORIES, 46 GM PROTEIN, 58 GM CARBOHYDRATES, 8 GM
FAT, 0 MG CHOLESTEROL, 94 MG SODIUM, CALORIES FROM FAT 14 PERCENT

LIGHT YEAST FLAVORING POWDER

Pulverize all ingredients in a blender until powdered.  Store in a
jar in a cool place.

GREAT GLUTEN DRESSING

Melt the margarine.  Saute the onion, celery, and mushrooms.  Combine
with the remaining ingredients, moistening with stock as necessary.

PER SERVING:  174 CALORIES, 7 GM PROTIEN, 30 GM CARBOHYDRATES, 2 GM
FAT, 0 MG CHOLESTEROL, 744 MG SODIUM, CALORIES FROM FAT 10 PERCENT.

GRAVET FOR MOCK TURKEY

Melt the margarine in aq saucepan.  Add the flour and cook for two
minutes. Add the reserved gluten stock, white wine and soy sauce.
Cook, stirring constantly until thick.  For more flavor, an
additional tablespoon of light yeast flavoring may be added.

PER 1/4 CUP:  69 CALORIES, 0 GM PROTIEN, 4 GM CARBOHYDRATES, 6 GM
FAT, 0 MG CHOLESTEROL, 300 MG SODIUM, CALORIES FROM FAT 78 PERCENT

HOMEMADE GLUTTEN

when you wash the starch and bran away from high-gluten, whole-wheat
flour, you end up with just the wheat protien, or gluten.  It's a
strechy substance with a particularly meaty texture when baked,
boiled, stewed and fried, and is the main component of the Great
Gluten Turkey.  This recipe uses 3 puonds of flour.  Note that the
"turkey" recipe uses 10 pounds of flour.  The recipe ingredients can
be increased and you can follow the same method outlined here.

NOTE:  If you wish to avoid the work of making homemade gluten, there
is also instant gluten flour (vital wheat gluten), which only needs
to be mixed with water.

3 puonds or more high-gluten whole-wheat flour 3 cups or more water

The important point here is to use a high-gluten whole-wheat flour.
Whole-wheat pastry flour will not give you the same results.  If
you're in in doubt, ask for the best flour for breadbaking, it has
the highest gluten content.

Place the flour in a large bowl and add the water while stirring
constantly.  Add enough water to make a very firm dough, it should be
much firmer than bread dough.  Allow this to sit for at least one
hour.  No kneading or setting overnight is necessary.

Place the bowl containing the dough in the sink.  Fill it with tap
water and begint to massage the dough.  The water will grow very
white and milky ar first, as the starch rinses out.  This liquid can
be saved and used in place of arrowroot or cornstarch to thicken
sauces and such.  It will keep for about two weeks in the
refrigerator.  If you don't save it, discard the water as it gets
cloudy and fill the bowl with fresh water.

[ Continued In Next Message... ]

~-- þ SPEED 1.30 [NR] þ ³Channel 8250³Birmingham AL³205-744-8546³Home
of SPEED³ þ RNET 2.00q: ILink: Sempervirens BBS þ Pittsburg CA þ
510-432-7579 ®

