Title: Ambassade d'Auvergne's Seven-Hour Leg Of Lamb
Categories: Meats
Yield: 10 servings
No Ingredients Found
AMBASSADE D'AUVERGNE'S SEVEN-HOUR LEG OF LAMB
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This sublime dish is from a superb book called "Bistro Cooking"
(Workman) by Patricia Wells. The title is slight exaggeration, as the
average leg of lamb will not take quite that long. Ontario lamb works
best for thsi dish, as its tougher texture disappears during slow
cooking and it tends to have more flavor than the New Zealand kind.
And yes, the high oven temperature is correct! 6 md Onions; quartered
6 md Carrots; quartered 1 ea Whole Head Garlic; cloves peeled; halved
6 ea Bay Leaves 1 sm Bunch Thyme; fresh (or 2 tb dried thyme) 6-7 lb
Leg Of Lamb (2 3/4 to 3 1/4 kg); bone in x Salt & Pepper (to taste) 2
ea Bottles Wine (750 ml); dry; white 5 lb Potatoes (2 1/2 kg);
peeled; quartered 5 md Tomatoes; peeled; cored; seeded; chopped Layer
onions, carrots, garlic, bay leaves and thyme on bottom of covered
roasting pan large enough to hold lamb. Place lamb, fat side up, on
top. Roast uncovered in preheated 425F oven 30 minutes. Remove
roaster from oven. Generously sprinkle lamb salt and pepper. Return
to oven and roast, uncovered 30 minutes. Remove roaster from oven and
place on top of stove. Slowly pour wine over lamb. Cover and bring to
boil. Return roaster, covered, to oven and roast until lamb is very
tender, still juicy and falling off the bone, about 4 to 5 hours.
Timing will vary according to size of lamb and roasting pan used.
Check lamb occasionally, reducing heat if lamb begins to burn or
liquid is evaporating too quickly. Toss potatoes and tomatoes in
liquid in roasting pan. Cover and roast about 1 to 1 1/4 hours until
potatoes are cooked through. Lamb should be moist, tender and falling
off bone. Makes 10 servings. From Article: Slow But Not Easy Food Is
Worth The Wait Written By: Marion Kane (Food Editor) Toronto Star 8
March, 1995

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   03-10-95

