Title: AN AGE-OLD OBSESSION 2
Categories: Information, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 1 servings   * Chocolate also appears to have been used as a medicinal remedy by
leading physicians of the day. Christopher Ludwig Hoffmann's treatise
Potus Chocolate recommends chocolate for many diseases, citing it as
a cure for Cardinal Richelieu's ills.

* Chocolate traveled to the Low Countries with the Duke of Alba. By
1730, it had dropped in price from $3 per lb to being within the
financial reach of those other than the very wealthy. The invention
of the cocoa press in 1828 helped further to cut prices and improve
the quality of chocolate by squeezing out some of the cocoa butter
and giving the beverage a smoother consistency.

* With the Industrial Revolution came the mass production of
chocolate, spreading its popularity among the citizenry.

* Discussing the introduction of coffee, tea, and cocoa into Europe,
Isaac Disraeli (1791-1834) wrote in his six-volume Curiosities of
Literature: "Chocolate the Spaniards brought from Mexico, where it
was denominated chocolatl. It was a coarse mixture of ground cacao
and Indian corn with roucou; but the Spaniards, liking its
nourishment, improved it into a richer compound with sugar, vanilla
and other aromatics. We had Chocolate houses in London long after
coffee houses; they seemed to have associated something more elegant
and refined in their new form when the other had become common."
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

