Title: Blueberry Scones
Categories: Fruit, Breads
Yield: 8 scones
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: 1994 COUNTRY COOKING---------------------
MMMMM--------------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS-------------------------
Shown on page 75
BUY extra boxes of blueberries when they are in season and freeze
them for use in baked goods for the rest of the year. 4 cups unsifted
all-purpose flour 3 tablespoons sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 1/2
teaspoon cream of tartar 1/2 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks)
butter 1 large egg 1 1/2 cups half-and-half 1 1/2 cups fresh or
unthawed frozen blueberries 1. Heat oven to 425-F. Grease large
baking sheet. In large bowl, combine flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, the
baking powder, cream of tartar, and salt. With pastry blender or 2
knives, cut the butter in until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. 2.
Separate egg, placing egg white in cup and yolk in small bowl. With
fork, beat egg yolk; stir in half-and-half. Add yolk mixture to dry
ingredients and mix lightly with fork until mixture clings together
and forms a soft dough. 3. Turn dough out onto lightly floured
surface and knead gently 5 or 6 times. Gently knead in blueberries.
Divide dough in half. With lightly floured rolling pin, roll one half
of dough into a 7-inch round. Cut into 4 wedges. Repeat with
remaining half of dough. 4. Place scones, 1 inch apart, on greased
baking sheet. Pierce tops with tines of fork. Brush with reserved egg
white; sprinkle with remaining 1 tablespoon sugar. 5. Bake scones 15
to 18 minutes when using fresh blueberries, about 20 minutes when
using frozen- or until golden brown. Serve warm. Nutrition
information per scone- protein: 9 grams; fat: 24 grams; carbohydrate:
59 grams; fiber: 2 grams; sodium: 473 milligrams; cholesterol: 89
milligrams; calories: 484.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-01-95

