Title: Chicken Knishes
Categories: Meats, Chicken, Jewish
Yield: 1 servings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CHICKEN KNISHES
The word "knish" probably comes from the Yiddish word "knapen", to
pinch. This describes the method of shaping these delicious pastries.
I came across this light and delicious "knish" in one of Toronto's
kosher delis; sadly I cannot remember it's name. The knish was shaped
as a small stuffed round ball and was deep fried instead of baked.
The proud owner naturally refused to give me the recipe. Yet it was
so delicious that I tried to recreate it, quite successfully, in my
own kitchen. My version is baked instead of fried, which makes it
marginally less fattening. Potato Dough: ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 lb Potatoes
(500 g) 1/4 c Chicken Fat, Vegetable Shortening or Peanut Oil (50 g2
oz) 1/3 c Flour (75 g/3 oz) For The Filling: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6 oz
Cooked Buckwheat (150 g); (Raw: about 100g/4 oz/1/2 cup) 12 oz Cooked
Chicken Meat (350 g); preferably dark 1 md Onion; finely chopped 2-3
tb Chicken Fat, Vegetable Shortening or Oil x Salt x Black Pepper x
Egg Glaze Cook the unpeeled potatoes in salted water. Pour off the
water, return to the heat and dry the potatoes well. Mash to a smooth
puree. Allow to cool. Add the melted fat and flour and knead to a
smooth , softish dough. If the dough is too soft to handle, add some
more flour. Cover and allow to rest for a while. <<***** Continued
Next Message *****>> ++- * VbReader 2.22 #549 * "A Crucifix? Oy vey -
have YOU got the wrong vampire" ++- QScan v1.14b / 01-0348 * Origin:
FidoNet: CRS Online, Toronto, Ontario (1:229/15) From: Sam Lefkowitz
Date: 03-14-95
======================================================================
==== ==== Here are a few different Jewish recipes from an interesting
cookbook. Enjoy your trip on the S.S. Mein Kind. Watch out for the
"Icebergs". -Begin Recipe Export- QBook version 1.00.14

