Title: Chocolate Oblivion Truffle Torte
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 12 servings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~
CHOCOLATE OBLIVION TRUFFLE
-TORTE
When brilliant U.S. baker and cookbook author Rose Levy Beranbaum
called her book "The Cake Bible" (Morrow), she wasn't kidding. It is
not light reading, nor are its recipes for the faint-hearted. They
do, however, produce impeccable results. This flourless chocolate
cake is perfect proof. 1 lb Bittersweet Chocolate (500 g); chopped 1
c Unsalted Butter 6 ea Eggs Butter 8-inch springform pan. Then line
bottom with buttered parchment or waxed paper. Line outside of pan
with double layer of heavy duty foil to prevent seepage. In large
metal bowl set over hot, not simmering water, combine chocolate and
butter. Let stand, stirring occasionally, until smooth and melted. In
large bowl set over pan of simmering water, heat eggs, stirring
constantly to prevent curdling, until just warm to touch. Remove from
heat. Transfer to bowl of stand mixer (a hand mixer does not work
well for this) and beat using whisk beater until eggs have tripled in
volume and soft peaks form when beater is raised, about 5 minute.
Scrape into prepared pan. Smooth top with spatula. Set pan in larger
pan (such as roasting pan). Add very hot water to about halfway up
sides of springform pan. Bake in preheated 425F oven for 5 minutes.
Cover loosely with buttered foil; bake 10 minutes. (Cake will look
soft). Cool on wire rack 45 minutes. Remove foil. Cover loosely with
plastic wrap. Refrigerate until very firm, about 3 hours. Cover flate
plate (at least 8 inches in diameter) withplastic wrap. Wipe outside
of pan with hot damp towel. Run thin metal spatula around the sides
of cake. Release sides of springform. Place plastic-wrapped plate on
top; invert. To release bottom of pan from cake, wipe with hot damp
towel. Remove bottom of pan and parchment papper. Reinvert cake on to
serving plate. Serve at room temperature. Cut into narrow wedges with
thin sharp knife dipped in hot water. Makes 12 to 16 servings. From
Article: Slow But Easy Food Is Worth The Wait. Written By: Marion
Kane (Food Editor) Toronto Star 8 March, 1995

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   03-10-95

