Title: Dark Chocolate Truffles with Hazelnuts
Categories: Alcohol, Candies, Chocolate, Desserts
Yield: 1 servings
Hazelnuts
MMMMM----------------KEYWORDS: SCANNED, SJK, TRUF---------------------
-1/2-INCH BALLS
MAKES ABOUT 8 DOZEN
Source: Chocolate Desserts, from the editors of Food & Wine magazine
Supplement to Food & Wine magazine, 03/95 Before the truffles can be
shaped, the chocolate mixture must have time to set- several hours or
preferably overnight- so plan accordingly. 2 cups Dark Chocolate
Ganache (p. 14) 2 tablespoons brandy 6 tablespoons ground hazelnuts
1. In a medium mixing bowl, beat the ganache at high speed until it
is at least as thick as heavily whipped cream. If this does not
happen with the ganache at room temperature, place the bowl in the
freezer for a minute and then whip it again. Do not leave the ganache
in the freezer too long or it will set. 2. Add the brandy and beat
until the mixture is stiff. 3. To shape the mixture, half-fill a
pastry bag fitted with a plain 1/4-inch tip with ganache, or use a
teaspoon. Onto sheets of waxed paper, squeeze out or shape the
mixture into mounds that are about 1/2 to 3/4 inch in diameter. When
all the mixture has been used, refrigerate the truffles for several
hours, preferably overnight, to allow the chocolate to set
completely. 4. Place the hazelnuts in a small shallow dish. Pick up
one truffle and, using the thumb and forefinger of both hands, push
it together to form a ball (do not roll the mixture between your
palms or it will soften too much). Roll a truffle around briefly in
the hazelnuts until it is well coated. As you complete them, set them
aside on a plate and chill until serving time.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-01-95

