Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Pies, Tarts and Pastries #4
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings  Pies, Tarts and Pastries (cont'd) *********************************
Patrially Baking Pie, Tart or Tartlet Crusts:
********************************************* I have found from baking
thousands of pies that partially baking single crusted pies and tarts
is a must in avoiding soggy bottom crusts, especially when using
custard fillings. Line the unbaked crust with a pieces of baking
paper, aluminum foil, or a coffee filter, then fill with uncooked
beans, rice or purchased aluminum pie weights. Bake the crust in a
preheated 350 degree oven for 20 minutes. The crust is ready when you
can lift the baking paper and the pastry does not stick to it. Remove
the weights (they can be used over and over again for weighting
crusts). Then fill the pie shell and bake according to the recipes
instructions.

For tartlets made in muffin tins, place another standard size muffin
tin directly on top of the pastry lined tin. Turn both pans upside
down and use light pressure to push the bottom pan into the dough of
the top pan. Bake the pans upside down in the preheated 350 degree
oven. Alternatively, the individual tarts can be filled with baking
paper and pie weights, as with regular size tart pans.

Pre-Baking (or Blind Baking) Pie, Tart or Tartlet Crusts:
********************************************************* Any pie
that has a completely precooked filling, such as cream pies and fresh
fruit tarts, should have a completely prebaked crust. Let the pie,
tart or tartlet shells cool completely before filling them. Follow
the directions for a partially baked crust. Once you have removed the
pie weights and baking paper, return the crust to the oven. Continue
to bake for another 15 to 20 minutes until the crust is golden brown.
With tartlets, once you have removed the pie weights and baking
paper, or the top muffin pan, bake them for another 15 to 20 minutes
until the tart shells are golden brown.

Baking Filled Pies: ******************* A fully baked bottom crust
requires sufficient bottom heat to bake the crust thoroughly (so it
does not become soggy and almost inedible). With both single and
double crusted pies, it is very important to position the pie on a
baking sheet directly on the floor of a gas oven, or on the lowest
shelf of electric oven. The baking sheet catches any drips, makes the
hot pie easier to handle when removing it from the oven, and helps
deflect the bottom heat. If your oven has excessive bottom heat,
which is unfortunately true of many homes oves, you may need to
experiment a bit to find the best way to get enough bottom heat to
cook the crust without burning it. Try baking your paies on two
baking sheets or in two pie pans, or bake them on the second lowest
shelf in an electric oven or the lowest shelf in a gas oven (Don't
try everything at once or you will end up with just what you are
trying to avoid, a soggy bottom crust). Submitted By JANE KNOX   On
03-11-95

