Title: Glossary of Cooking and Ingredient Terms
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  Arborio rice has a squat, oval shape and delightful taste. It is the
rice best suited for  risotto, a dish made by frequent additions of
hot liquid stirred into a sautÂ‚ed mixture of rice and onions.

Balsamic vinegar is made from white Trebbiano grapes. This aromatic
vinegar ages to a dark brown. It has a full-bodied, slightly sweet
flavor with a hint of tartness. use it in small amounts to flavor
vinaigrettes, sauces, and strawberries. Store in a cool, dark place
for up to six months.

Barbecue smoke seasoning is a bottled liquid used during cooking to
give food hickory-smoke flavor. It is sometimes labeled "liquid
smoke".

Carambola is a deeply ridged, yellow fruit that g rows in tropical
climates. It is sometimes called star fruit because when it's cut in
half crosswise, it has a five-pointed star shape. They don't need to
be peeled and can be eaten raw. The ripe fruit is a vibrant yellow
color.

Cardamon is one of the world's most versatile spices because its
exotic flavor marries well with a variety of foods, both sweet and
savory. It is widely available in ground form. The green pods, with
dark, sticky seeds inside are sold in Indian and other specialty food
markets. Store in an airtight container in a cool, dark, dry place.

Deglazing is loosening and dissolving solidified particles of food
left on the surface of a skillet or pan after browning meat. Gently
loosen the particles with a spatula, add liquid and heat, and stir to
dissolve.

Dried shiitake mushrooms are sometimes called forest mushrooms or
Oriental or Chinese black mushrooms. Rehydrate dried shiitakes in hot
water, remove the stems and chop.

Hoisin sauce is a thick, dark-brown Chinese sauce made from soybeans
and chilies. Sugar and salt are added to give the sauce a sweet but
biting taste.

Hungarian paprika, whether sweet of hot, is considered to be the best
paprika. It is interchangeable with regular paprika.

Rice vinegar is made from either fermented rice or rice wine. It is
mainly used in Oriental cooking.

Saffron threads are the dried stigmas of a type of crocus and are
used to season and color dishes  such as paella or rice. Saffron is
the most expensive spice there is, but it will keep for up to a year
in the freezer. To measure saffron, crumble the threads and loosely
pack them into a measuring spoon.

Cooking Light March 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-01-95

