Title: Homey Chicken Salad (and Variations)
Categories: Nuts/grains, Vegetables, Fruit
Yield: 6 servings
Lamb
MMMMM----------------KEYWORDS: SALADS, SJK, TURKE---------------------
~---Keywords: Mayonnaise, Mom-E's, Olives, Oranges, Peach, Pecans,
Pineapple---
Source: My mother's recipe collection. Clippings from magazines and
newspapers from the 40's to 70's From
: Sallie Krebs Cooked meat from 4-lb. drawn roaster, fowl, or turkey
(4 to 5 cups)* 1 cup celery, cut on angle 1 cup minced green pepper 2
teasp. grated onion 2/3 cup mayonnaise or cooked salad dressing 1/4
cup light cream 1 teasp. salt 1/8 teasp. pepper 2 tablesp. vinegar
Cut chicken meat into large chunks; add celery, pepper, and onion.
Mix mayonnaise and rest of ingredients- toss well with chicken
mixture. Chill. Serve on crisp greens; garnish with cranberry or tart
jelly. Makes 6 to 8 servings. Canned chicken or turkey may replace
cooked meat. TENNESSEE CHICKEN SALAD. Add 1/4 cup each chopped ripe
and stuffed olives; 1/4 cup sweet pickle; 1 cup slivered, toasted
almonds HAWAIIAN SALAD. Add 1 to 2 cups fresh or drained canned
pineapple chunks. Try half chicken and ham, too. EXOTIC CHICKEN
SALAD. Add 2/3 cup slivered, toasted almonds, or chopped, toasted
walnuts or pecans; and cups halved, seeded green grapes.
CHICKEN-FRUIT BUFFET. Add 1 cup slivered, toasted almonds. Arrange
salad in half of large serving dish; in other half, place chilled
honeydew-melon strips, grapefruit and orange sections, and cranberry
balls made from chilled canned jellied cranberry sauce. Or serve
salad on fresh or canned pineapple slices; or serve in avocado or
canned peach halves. CHICKEN WALDORF. Add 2 cups diced unpared red
apple and 2/3 cup chopped walnuts or peanuts. TUESDAY'S SALAD (made
from Sunday's roast). Make half recipe for Homey Chicken Salad
(above), substituting 2 cups cut-up cooked ham, veal, or lamb for
chicken. Also, try some of the variations. *Simmer chicken or turkey
in water to half cover, or roast; or cook in pressure cooker as
manufacturer directs.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-04-95

