Title: Mixed Fruit Tzimmes
Categories: Meats, Beef, Fruit, Jewish
Yield: 1 servings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MIXED FRUIT TZIMMES
I found this unusual recipe in a book written by one of the most
legendary figures of the the Jewish American hotel industry. Mrs.
Grosinger arrived from Austria to the East Side of New York as a
7-year old immigrant. She learned her trade in her mother's Jewish
kitchen and in the kitchens of many Italian and Irish mamas who
livedin the same neighbourhood. In 1914 she and her family opened a
small hotel in the Catskill Mountains which became one of the best
known and most luxurious American Jewish resort hotels. With the help
of her mother she developed the recipes which are the foundation of
the Grossinger style. 1 1/2 c Dried Apricots (250 g/8 oz) 1 c Dried
Pears (250 g/8 oz) 1 c Dried Prunes (250 g/8 oz) 3 lb Brisket (1 1/2
kg) 2 ts Salt 1/4 ts Ground Pepper 3 ea Carrots; quartered 6 ea Lime
or Lemon; thin-sliced 2 c Orange Juice (500 ml/16 fl. oz) 4 c Water
(1 litre/2 pints) 4 tb Honey or Sugar Wash the apricots, pears and
prunes before soaking them in cold water for 1 hour. Drain. Brown the
meat over medium heat in a heavy bottomed pan or a Dutch oven.
Sprinkle the meat with salt and pepper. Arrange the fruit, carrots
and lime/lemon around it. Mix the orange juice, water and honey
together and pour all over. Cover and bake in a moderate oven (gas 4,
180C, 350F) for 3 hours. Remove the cover and, increasing the heat to
hot (gas 7, 220C, 425F), bake for 1 hour longer, adding a little
water if necessary. Serve hot. From: In Search Of Plenty: A History
Of Jewish Food (Kyle Cathie Ltd) By: Oded Schwartz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   03-14-95

