Title: MO HOTTA'
Categories: Information, Hot/spicy, Chilies
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Tim and Wendy Eidson (pronounced like Edison, but without the "i")
run Mo Hotta Mo Betta, a mail order business specializing in spicy
foods. Their catalogue lists 250 items, not only hot sauces and curry
makings but WASABI chips, JALAPENO ketchup, peppered peanut butter
and chile spiked honey. The catalogue opens with two pages of sauces
made from the HABANERO or Scotch Bonnet pepper, which American chile
fanatics currently applaud as the hottest in the world.  A few
examples:

LINGHAM & SON CHILE SAUCE: Malaysian-style sauce, sweet amd sneakily
hot. Fine chile aroma.

PICKAPEPPA HOT PEPPER SAUCE: Aged three years in wood, consequently
not always available. Mellowly vinegary, medium hot. (It shares it
rich, fruity bouquet, largely due to the use of rum vinegar, with the
better known and not particularly hot Pickapeppa Sauce, which
somewhat resembles A-1 sauce.)

HAWAIIAN PASSION: made with LILIKOI (passion fruit); a clean, hot
burn.

POBLANO GREEN JALAPENO SAUCE: local brand little known outside Tucson.
True JALAPENO flavour, medium hot. Same company also makes a good
bricky flavoured salsa ranchera.

CHOLULA: made with red peppers and PIQUIN peppers. Sharp and a little
funky, like a cross between a Mexican sauce such as Tapatio and a
Louisiana hot sauce.

LEE KUM KEE CHILE GARLIC SAUCE: a thick paste of peppers and garlic,
hot and rank-smelling; a grudge in a jar.

BUFFALO CHIPOTLE: hot and smoky-flavoured, made from dried smoked
JALAPENOS.  A condiment, but would be interesting in cooking as well.

DAT'L DO IT: from St. Augustine, FL., which claims the only place
where DATIL peppers are growns (botanists may disagree). Interesting
vegetable aroma, fairly hot.

SPITFIRE HOT PEPPER SAUCE: a sauce from Barbados containing onion,
vinegar, mustard, horseradish, radish and HABANERO peppers; tastes
like mustard, burns like pepper.

GOURMET WEST INDIES CREOLE HOT PEPPER SAUCE: a thick, reddish-brown
sauce that has been made on the island of Dominica for 50 years;
elegant, winey HABANERO aroma. Quite hot.

MATOUK'S WEST INDIAN STYLE HOT CALYPSO SAUCE: a real hot-sauce lover's
sauce, sold in a big jar (and definitely not for the cautious; the
mouth is wide and there's no way to pour just a drop). Hot, flat out
HABANERO flavour with a hint of sweet and sour.

JAMAICAN CRUSHED SCOTCH BONNET HOT PEPPER: exquisite fresh HABANERO
aroma, like all fresh vegetables in one.  The pastel yellow orange
colors, reminiscent of a Tequila Sunrise, are deceptive; it is
extremely hot.

HELL IN A BOTTLE: The hottest item in the Mo Hotta catalogue,
essentially apple sauce plus lime juice, garlic and so much chile the
color is grayish plum; must be refrigerated after opening. Violently
hot; label openly refers to it as "a test of friendship or guts."
"Frankly." Tim Eidson says, "I can't think of anything you'd serve it
with."

MO HOTTA MO BETTA P.O.BOX 4136 SAN LUIS OBISPO, CALIFORNIA 93403 800
462-3220 ============== and now some addresses, etc. ==============
For more info on Scotch Bonnets: Chile Pepper magazine ++ The Winter
1989 issue has a "Pepper Profile" on the Scotch Bonnet (aka
Habanero). A subscription is available for $15.95/year (published
bi-monthly). Write to: The Whole Chile Pepper, P.O. Box 4278,
Albuquerque, NM 87196, 1-800-359-1483). As for getting sauces:
Jamaican Crushed Scotch Bonnet Hot Pepper, Island Style ++ write
Island Style Foods, 473 Gaspar Avenue, Deltona, FL 32725 Pepper,
Island Style. Evadney's Jamaican Hot Sauce ++ available from Island
Imports, P.O. Box 78925, Los Angeles, CA 90016, (213) 732-6320.
Melinda's Extra Hot Sauce (Original Habanero Pepper Sauce) ++ call
(504) 469-4210. Inner Beauty Hot Sauce ++ East Coast Grill,
Cambridge, MA; available from Pottery Barn, Williams-Sonoma, or you
can call the East Coast Grill (617) 491-6568. As for getting Scotch
Bonnets and other peppers: Old Southwest Trading Company, DS
Division, Box 7545, Albuquerque, NM 87194 ++ write for a free catalog
GNS Spices Inc., P.O. Box 90, Walnut, CA 91788-0090, (714) 594-9505
++ write or call for more info; habaneros available fresh or dried
Los Chileros de Nuevo Mexico, P.O. Box 6215, Santa Fe, NM 87502,
(505) 471-6967 Sources for seeds/plants for growing chile peppers
yourself: The Pepper Gal, Dorothy L. Van Vleck, 10536 119th Avenue
North, Largo, FL 34643 Roswell Seed Co., 115-117 South Main, P.O. Box
725, Roswell, NM 88201, (505) 622-7701 Plants of the Southwest, 1812
Second Street, Santa Fe, NM 87501 Porter and Son, Seedsmen, 1512 East
Washington Street, Stephenville, TX 76401

Submitted By BILL JERNIGAN   On   03-17-95

