Title: Nutritional Yeast And B12
Categories: Fatfree, Information
Yield: 1 servings
1    Text Reference
There's been some discussion of vitamin B12 in recent posts. A
generally accepted assumption is that nutritional yeast is a source
of B12. A little over a year ago, someone on the Fat-Free list
mentioned that all nutritional yeasts are not fortified with B12,
naming Red Star T-6635+ as one source. I asked my HFS if theirs had
B12. "Absolutely", I was told. I asked to see the label of on the 50
pound sack they use for their bulk sales, and there was no mention of
B12 on it. After calling Red Star, I received a data sheet for all
their nutritional yeasts.  Of Red Star's yeasts, only T-6635+
contains a significant amount of B12 (0.5 mcg per gram). When I
brought this to the attention of the general manager of the HFS, he
immediately ordered the T-6635+ for all future shipments. While I had
no immediate concern about a B12 deficiency, I had been consuming a
nutritional yeast which added no B12 to my system.

I noticed that the B12 fortified yeast was a much darker golden color
than the ivory color of the the unfortified yeast, but that may vary
from lot to lot.

For what it's worth, the information sheet says that Red Star's
primary grown nutritional yeasts are from a pure strain of
Saccharomyces cervisiae, grown in a mixture of cane and beet
molasses. (For those who remember their Latin, cervisiae would
indicate a beer base.)

A heaping tablespoon of nutritional yeast is about 8 grams. (4 mcg
B12) This yeast is 4.7% fat, 35% carbohydrate and 52% protein, the
rest is nitrogen and moisture. There are 2.8 calories of energy per
gram.

The complete nutritional analysis of T-6635+, including the specific
amounts of each amino acid, is available from Universal Foods Corp.,
433 East Michigan Street, Milwaukee, WI 53201.  (414) 271-1920

Source: Original

Posted by Neal Pinckney <neal@pixi.com> to the Fatfree Digest [Volume
15 Issue 23] Feb. 23, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

