Title: Rec.food.cooking FAQ - 12 Of 13
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
8 ea The rec.food.cooking Food
-Exchange
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
-++++++++++++
People from all over the world read rec.food.cooking.  If mere words
are not sufficient to explain a food not from your region, if you
want to try local items from other parts of the world, then read
on... After a successful large-scale exchange orchestrated earlier
this year by David Wilkinson in the UK, it has been suggested that
ongoing requests for food exchange partners be posted as follows : *
EXCHANGE should be the first word in the Subject: line.  This allows
people who aren't interested to use whatever facilities their
newsreader allows to avoid posts on this subject. * Posts should
indicate what you have and what you want.  For example "I have Cherry
Ripe bars, does anyone want to swap for Peanut Butter M&Ms" or "I'm
from France and I'd like to swap regional foods with someone from the
USA" (perhaps followed by a representative list of regional foods).
If you want to swap food with someone, either post your own request
or reply to somebody else's. OR try to pick up on the occasional
postings people make offering to do one round of a large scale
orchestration. And now, some hints : * Overseas postage can get VERY
expensive, VERY fast. You will probably want to send all but the very
tiniest of packages by surface mail. This takes weeks and weeks and
so the perishability of the food items you send will need to be taken
into account. * Some countries have stringent import restrictions.
Fresh foods and anything that might harbour insects, for example, are
not likely to get into some countries, also viable seeds are not
welcomed in countries such as New Zealand. * Some ideas on packaging
anything that is not remarkably sturdy - use a rigid outer box of
some sort - wrap anything containing liquid in its own plastic bag,
disasters happen - if there are heavy things packed with fragile
things, remember to anchor them (maybe with tape) - use some sort of
packing material (I use newspaper) to cushion the effect of any bumps
~ pick the smallest box that your things will fit into - coffee
canisters work well to send cookies in - toilet paper tubes are good
space fillers, you can also put small things inside them * Postage
really is a killer. I can't emphasise this one enough * Good and Bad
Travellers (please contribute!): - Good Nut Breads Spices Nuts
Anything Dried - Bad Glass (usually) - heavy (= expensive) and
breakable - with careful packing it's ok Oily Things. Wrap these
well, or else they will weaken their part of the box
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 9 Archives [If you are
archiving recipes from rec.food.cooking, please tell me about it so I
can put it here] ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 9.1
Archives from rec.food.recipes rec.food.recipes is being archived at
several FTP sites : Currently updated sites: * ftp://ftp.neosoft.com
in /pub/rec.food.recipes (login as `anonymous') maintainer
: Stephanie da Silva (arielle@taronga.com) This is the official
rec.food.recipes archive. * ftp://ftp.halcyon.com/pub/recipes Some
older (often not currently being updated) archive sites: *
ftp://gatekeeper.dec.com/pub/recipes alt.gourmand files *
ftp://mthvax.cs.miami.edu/recipes rec.food.recipes under aem
moderatorship *
ftp://wuarchive.wustl.edu/usenet/rec.food.recipes/recipes mthvax
mirror *  ftp://ftp.uu.net/usenet/rec.food.recipes another mthvax
mirror * ftp://ils.nwu.edu/pub/sourdough FAQs and mailing list
archives * ftp://rahul.net/pub/artemis/fatfree/FAQ Fat Free recipe FAQ

Submitted By DAVID KNIGHT   On   02-27-95

