Title: St. Patrick's Day Irish Style Corned Beef
Categories: Beef, West europe, Vegetables, Irish
Yield: 1 servings
-little fresh beef came on
-the market in
Their areas.
From: Diane Duane
--------------------------
... couldn't afford what
Many of them, indeed, never got a taste of beef until after they
emigrated to America or Canada, where it was affordable even for
immigrants. There, when they got beef, they treated it the same way
they would have treated a bacon joint at home in Ireland:  they
soaked it to draw off the excess salt, then braised or boiled it with
cabbage, and served it in its own juices with only minimal spicing.
This is the dish which has become familiar to North Americans as the
(usually) dreadfully overcooked glop which in many East Coast cities
becomes unavoidable around Saint Patrick's Day or at election time.
In the USA, at least, it is almost never done right in any
restaurant:  it's too much trouble to cook the cabbage fresh every
time, and not overdo it.  The following recipe for cabbage and bacon
is a good guide to how corned beef and cabbage *should* be made.
Cooking times for the meat will be similar. CABBAGE AND BACON (Bagun
agus Cabaiste) 2 lb bacon, in a joint 1 white cabbage black pepper
"Bacon" here means a rolled cut of pork, like shoulder or foreleg,
tied up if necessary. It would always have been salted, here, to
improve the flavor and tenderness of the meat: you would then soak it
to get the salt out. The brine used to salt down the cruibins (see
earlier message) will do fine for this. Leave the cut of meat in it
for about a day. Then soak in cold water for a few hours to remove
excess salt. Put the bacon in cold water and bring it slowly to a
boil: simmer *gently* until really tender, about an hour and a half.
(Overestimate if you're not sure.) Turn off the heat and leave the
bacon to set in the water. Cut the cabbage in quarters. Cut out tough
stalks at the center. wash thoroughly in lots of cold salted water.
Rinse, then plunge the cabbage into fast boiling water and boil
*really* hard for 3-4 minutes.  Add a few cups of the water in which
the bacon was cooked, to salt and flavor the cabbage. Continue
cooking until cabbage is tender but still crisp. You're just going to
have to keep testing it: each cabbage has its own timing.  It might
be five minutes, it might be ten... Don't believe any recipe you have
that recommends cooking cabbage for this kind of dish (or with corned
beef) longer than 20 minutes. When the cabbage is ready, slice the
bacon and serve it with the cabbage, and a parsley sauce. And mustard
and horseradish, if you like them. * QMPro 1.0 90-8356 * New Jersey,
The Garden State ++- WILDMAIL!/WC v4.11 * Origin: The Magic Dominion
1:107/614 n.j. 908-583-7894 28.8 (1:107/614.0) From: PAT STOCKETT
Date: 03-07-95
======================================================================
==== ==== Hi Jim! JC>I wondered where he go off to. I replied to a
message from him around >the 14th and hadn't heard from him since. He
has to have more surgery so will be staying with one of his
daughters. Then he's off to do some writing.  He's promised to check
in once in a while though. And to be back for the picnic in
Baltimore. JC>Oh please! Sue is nuts for anything that reduces
kitchen space. It >wouldn't be so bad, but she can't even reach the
back of the first shelf! When we first moved into this house I
thought the kitchen was so big I'd never even be able to make it look
lived in.  Now it's stuffed. :-) * QMPro 1.0 90-8356 * New Jersey,
The Garden State ++- WILDMAIL!/WC v4.11 * Origin: The Magic Dominion
1:107/614 n.j. 908-583-7894 28.8 (1:107/614.0) From: PAT STOCKETT
Date: 03-07-95
======================================================================
==== ==== I realize that some of the soda bread information is
repeated here, but then there's some new stuff too. And it's the way
I saved it in q-book. Real long ones. :-) -Begin Recipe Export- QBook
version 1.00.14

