Title: MARINADES & RUBS
Categories: Sauces, Rubs
Yield: 1 Servings
NE  *****
A marinade is a hgihly seasoned liquid used to impart flavor and in
some Cased, tenderize tougher meats.  A rub is a hgihly concentrated
blend of Herbs and spicesthat flavors the exterior of the meat as it
grills. Marinades consist of liquid ingredients such as fruit or
vegetable juces, Wine or water and oil in combination with seasoning
for several hours or As long as overnight to impart flavor and/or
tenderize. To tenderize a Marinade must contain an acidic inggredient
such as lemon juice, wine, Vinegar, or yogart, the acid penetrates
meat fibers to help tenderize Them. Rubs are applied to the exterior
surface of tthe meat just before Grilling; they need no standing
time. However for convenience rubs may be Applied several hrs in
advance.  The coated meat should be refrigerated Until grilling time.
Flavors become more pronounced the longer the rub is on the meat.
Create your own blend or seasonings for rubs or use a commercial
blend. Tips for marinade always marinate in the refrigerator; never
at room temp Allow 1/4-1/2 cup of marinade ffor each 1-2 lbs meat
marinades may be Cooked or uncooked.  Cooked marinades should be
completely cooled before Use. A heavy duty plastic food bag is
convenient for marinating. Select dishes In which the meat will fit
snugly but lie flat turn meat occasionally During marinating so all
sides are exposed to the marinade for Tenderization to take place
most meat cuts must be marinated for at least 6 hrs, or as long as
overnight. For flavor marinate 15 min or as long as 2 hrs. Marinades
may also be brushed on during grilling. Discard used marinades never
reuse them.

Larry A. Willrath

: Larry A. Willrath
Recipe By

