Title: MICRO MAGE'S CREAMY RICE PUDDING
Categories: Desserts, Rice
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 c  Rice
2 c  Milk
1/4 ts Salt
Then stir in:

2 tablespoons butter 3 beaten eggs 3/4 cup sugar 1 1/2 cup milk 1 1/2
teaspoon pure vanilla extract 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg

Pour into a 1 1/2 qt casserole dish and bake at 350 degrees for 50
minutes. Remove from oven and let cool, or chill.

Thicken a little fresh orange juice with cornstarch, sweeten slightly
and drizzle over the top.

Makes 8 half-cup servings.

And here's something else good, adapted from a recipe in SUNDAYS AT
MOOSEWOOD RESTAURANT:

Keywords; desserts, fruit

2 c. mixed dried fruit (apricots, pears, prunes, apples, etc.) 3 or
more c. fruit juice (I like pineapple or apricot) 1/2 tsp. nutmeg 1
tsp. cinnamon pinch of clove (optional) 3 tbsp. quick-cooking tapioca
1 c. heavy cream 1 tsp. vanila a little honey if desired (go
lightly--this dish shouldn't be icky-sweet)

Core and coarsely chop pears, but leave other fruit uncut. Stew fruit
and the spices on low heat in 3 c. fruit juice for about 1/2 hr.
Drain, reserving liquid.

Measure reserved juice; if it doesn't equal 2 cups, add more. In a
saucepan, stir tapioca into juice and let stand 5 min. Bring to a
boil and cook for a few minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from
heat and let stand for 20 min. Combine tapioca mixture and fruit, and
sweeten to taste with honey. Chill.

Just before serving, whip the cream with the vanilla and a tablespoon
of honey till stiff.  Layer pudding and cream in dessert dishes.

~!- WILDMAIL!/WC v4.11 ! Origin: Louisville Hot House (1:2320/180.0)

Ä Area: recipes
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ ÄÄÄÄÄÄ Msg#:
401 Date: 05-27-96  04:12 From: Rain Read: No Replied: No To: Mike
Key Mark: Subj: Mushroom Orzo
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ ÄÄÄÄ ÄÄÄ -> We like to add things to basic rice, for
variety. But I would like t -> some rice recipes that are actually
the whole meal, but fairly -> healthy, not  cream soup type.

Okay, as promised, here are a couple:

Cook till rice is tender:

Date: 05-27-96
From: Rain

