Title: OLD FASHIONED CHOCOLATE PUDDING
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
2 c  Milk
3 tb Cornstarch
4 tb Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
2 tb Good quality cocoa
1 ts Vanilla
Scald 1 1/2 cups of milk in a heavy saucepan (look for tiny bubbles
around the edge).  Mix together the cornstarch, sugar, salt and
cocoa, add the remaining 1/2 cup milk, and stir until well blended.
Stir in the scalded milk and blend well.  Pour the mixture back into
the saucepan and stir constantly over medium heat until thickened.
Let the pudding boil for one minute while stirring briskly. Remove
from heat, pour into a bowl and let cool for a few minutes. Stir in
the vanilla, spoon into serving dishes.

You can eat the pudding warm (you probably -will- taste it while
warm) or cover and refrigerate until ready to serve. A little heavy
cream over each serving is nice, maybe a little cookie along side . .
. I never use salt and cut the sugar back to 3 Tbs. You can
experiment a little. I usually use low fat or 1% milk. Nonfat is OK
too, but it does loose a little something. There's no need to use
whole milk, but you can.

Use good quality cocoa and high quality vanilla extract. You can use
vanilla sugar also, which is my favorite way. Take 1/2 a vanilla bean
and slit it vertically and then cut each half into two or three
pieces. Add the pieces to a cup of sugar, cover, and let it sit a few
days. The sugar then becomes flavored by the vanilla. Remove the
vanilla pieces and the sugar is ready to use.

This recipe allows for the formation of a "skin" on the top of the
pudding. I've been told that by laying a piece of plastic wrap over
the top while the pudding is setting up, the skin won't form. I've
not tried that, so I don't know if it really works. I like that skin
<g>.

Posted By belinkof@netcom.com (Shel Belinkoff) On rec.food.recipes or
rec.food.cooking

