Title: FOR SAFETY'S SAKE
Categories: Information, Canning
Yield: 1 Text  Pressure canning is the only recommended method for canning meat,
poultry, seafood, and vegetables.  The bacterium 'Clostridium
botulinum' is destroyed in low-acid foods when they are processed at
the correct time and pressure in pressure canners.  Using boiling
water canners for these foods poses a real risk of botulism poisoning.

If Clostridium botulinum bacteria survive and grow inside a sealed
jar of food, they can produce a poisonous toxin. Even a taste of food
containing this toxin can be fatal. Boiling food 10 minutes at
altitudes below 1,000 feet destroys this poison when it is present.
For altitudes at and above 1,000 feet, add 1 minute per 1,000 ft.
additional elevation. Caution: To prevent the risk of botulism,
low-acid and tomato foods not canned according to the recommendations
in this publication or according to other USDA-endorsed
recommendations should be boiled as above, even if you detect no
signs of spoilage. All low-acid foods canned according to the
approved recommendations may be eaten without boiling them when you
are sure of all the following:

* Food was processed in a pressure canner.

* Gauge of the pressure canner was accurate.

* Up-to-date researched process times and pressures were used for the
size of jar, style of pack, and kind of food being processed.

* The process time and pressure recommended for sterilizing the food
at your altitude was followed.

* Jar lid is firmly sealed and concave.

* Nothing has leaked out when jar is opened.

* No liquid spurts out when jar is opened.

* No unnatural or "off" odors can be detected.

======================================================= === * USDA
Agriculture Information Bulletin No. 539 (rev. 1994) * Meal-Master
format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

