Title: Causa a la Chiclayana (Seasoned Mashed (see dirs)) 2/2
Categories: So. america, Main dish, Fish, Vegetable
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM----------------SILVER XPRESS MAIL SYSTEM 5---------------------
Name: Seasoned Mashed Potatoes with Fish and Vegetables

THE VEGETABLE GARNISH:  Fill two 3 to 4 quart saucepans with about 2
quarts of water each.  Bring them to a boil over high heat and drop
into each the sweet potatoes and yuca.  Boil briskly, uncovered, for
about 20 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender.  Drain them and
place them on a heatproof plate, cover with foil and keep them warm
in the oven..
Bring 2 quarts of water to a boil over high heat in a heavy 3 quart
saucepan.  Drop in the corn and boil briskly, uncovered, for 5 to 10
minutes, depending on the tenderness of the corn.

THE FISH:  While the corn cooks, fry the fish fillets.  Heat 2
tablespoons of olive oil over moderate heat in a 10 to 12 inch
skillet until a light haze forms above it.  Lightly salt the fillets
and dip them in the flour. Shake off any excess flour and fry the
fillets for about 2 or 3 minutes on each side, or until they are
crisp and golden brown, adding more oil to the pan if necessary.

TO ASSEMBLE:  Remove the platter of sauced, mashed potatoes and the
plate of sweet potatoes and yucas from the oven.  Reheat the topping
if it has cooled.  Drain the corn.  Arrange the lettuce leaves in an
overlapping ring around the mashed potatoes.  Remove the fish from
the skillet with a slotted spoon and place the fish, the sweet
potatoes, yucas and corn rounds decoratively on the lettuce.  Pour
the topping sauce over the mound of mashed potatoes and decorate it
with the black olives and cheese wedges. Serve at once.

71 of 108  page 2 of 2

Source: Time Life Series: Latin American Cooking

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com * Origin: Salata * Redondo Beach, CA
* 310-543-0439 V.32bis (1:102/125)
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-04-95

