Title: Children & Juice
Categories: Kids, Information
JUICE OVERLOAD
Yield: 1 servings

Like many parents, you may consider "natural" fruit juice a healthy
snack, and if you have a picky eater, you may be tempted to give
him/her lots of juice to supplement their diet. But young children
who drink large amounts of fruit juice, apple juice in particular,
are at risk for severe nutritional deficiencies that can interfere
with normal growth, according to researchers at the Maimonides
Medical Center in New York City. Drinking juice throughout the day
will decrease a child's appetite, making eating problems even worse.
Juices with lots of fructose and sorbitol sugars can cause diarrhea,
bloating, and cramps when not fully digested. And kids who constantly
guzzle juice from a bottle are susceptible to cavity-causing
bacteria. It's best to give young children real fruits and vegetables
or water, which is essential for a balanced diet and won't interfere
with their appetites. If you decide to serve juice, wait until your
child is a year old and serve it only in a cup as a beverage with a
meal - not as a snack. Toddlers should drink no more than four to
eight ounces of juice a day. Older kids should be limited to one or
two cups daily, each with a meal. *By Jeffrey L. Brown, M.D.,
F.A.A.P., taken from August 1994 issue of Child magazine* -Posted for
you by Michelle Bruce Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-09-95

