Title: Easy Tips to Help Cut the Fat from Our Diets
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Plan meals by using substitutions and modifications.

Avoid high cholesterol foods, such as liver and other organ meats.

Reduce the use of whole eggs. Substitute egg whites, Egg Beaters or
Better 'n Eggs.

Avoid red meats rich in saturated fat, such as bacon, sausage and
luncheon meats. Eat turkey, chicken and fish whenever possible.

If you do eat red meat, please trim off all visible fat. Broil,
roast, bake or barbecue, but never fry ANYTHING.

De-fat meat drippings and broths before using.

Always skin turkey or chicken before you cook it. Choose white meat
over dark.

Saute in wine, fat free chicken broth, vermouth or flavored vinegar.
Always use a nonstick pan to cook in and use a non fat cooking spray.
Never use buttre, lard, shortening or hydrogenated vegetable oil to
cook with.

If you must use an oil, choose wisely. Some choices would be olive or
canola oil. Avoid butter and stick margarine made from liquid
vegetable oil. Reduce the amount of margarine used or use the new low
and nonfat margarines.

Avoid whole milk and wholle milk products. Use skim milk and low or
nonfat cheeses.

LEARN TO READ LABELS

Avoid convenience foods and commercially baked goods. Ask how foods
are prepared. Be especially careful in fast food restuarants.

Increase your intake of complex carbohydrates, such as vegetables,
fruits, grains and legumes.

Substitute low or nonfat foods, replacing high fat foods whenever
possible.

If you must eat fats, make wise choices, choosing polyunsaturated and
monounsaturated fats over saturated fats.

Use crepes (recipe will be posted) in place of commercial flour
tortillas in your Mexican dishes to save even more fat grams.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

