Title: GOURMET GLOSSARY 1
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  ~almond butter a smooth, creamy spread made from finely ground almonds

~ancho chile peppers (dried poblano chilies) Anchos are mild,
smoky-flavored chilies that are broad, flat and heart-shaped. The
powdered for, is known as ancho molido.

~Anaheim chile peppers (New Mexican) a mild green or red chile about
6" long. Its flavor is improved by roasting.

~arrowroot a starchy powder used for thickening. It is made from the
root of a tropical plant and can be substituted for cornstarch in
equal amounts.

~balsamic vinegar a rich reddish-brown semisweet vinegar made from
white grapes.

~Belgian endive a small, canoe-shaped salad green with yellow or red
leaves.

~brown rice syrup a sweetener made by fermenting rice and reducing the
liquid to a thick syrup. It is similar in consistency to honey, but
less sweet.

~brown rice vinegar a slightly sweet, naturally brewed vinegar made
from fermented brown rice.

~Kalamata olives small, black, slightly tart olives often served
whole in Greek salads.

~capers seed-like buds of a Mediterranean plant that are pickled and
used as a condiment or garnish.

~carob a caffeine-free, chocolate-like flavoring made from the pods
of the carob tree. Available powdered and in chips.

~cayenne pepper a very piquant spice made from dried, ground cayenne
chile peppers.

~cÂŠpes French word for porcini mushrooms, which have a bulbous
light-brown cap, a thick stem and an earthy flavor.

~chicory a bitter salad green with curly leaves and blue flowers. The
roots are dried and ground into a coffee-like powder which is often
used in Cajun and Creole cooking.

~chickpea flour toasted and milled chickpeas used in Mediterranean,
Middle Eastern and Indian dishes. It is often combined with other
flours in baked goods.

~chili powder a blend of ground chilies, garlic, cumin and oregano
often used in Southwestern cooking.

~cilantro the fresh, aromatic leaves of the coriander plant, often
used in Mexican, Asian and Indian cooking. It is sometimes labeled
coriander or Chinese parsley.

~Colorado chile pepper dried red New Mexican or Anaheim chilies.

~crimini mushrooms (Italian brown) light brown, button-shaped
mushrooms that have a more pronounced mushroom flavor than the
regular white button variety.

~cumin a pungent seed used ground or whole, most often in curries,
bean dishes and Mexican foods.

VEGETARIAN GOURMET
SPRING 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   02-18-95

