Title: HOW TO GET RID OF THE FAT-PAST PRESENT AND FUTURE
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
The fat on olur bodies didn't get there overningt. It might take more
than days or even weeks to get rid of it. Permanent weight loss is a
gradual process that can take months to accomplish but is definitely
worth the effort. Cutting the fat in our diets is the first place to
get started. As we know, a LOW FAT DIET IN CONJUNCTION WITH AEROBIC
EXCERCISE IS A SYSTEM DESTINED TO SUCCEED. Persistence and
perseverance will assure our success. An obvious way to get rid of
the fat is to eat less of it in our diets. It is a known fact that
when you eat less fat than you burn, you will obtain your energy by
raiding fat from the fat stores in your body. We know that aerobic
excercise plays the most important role in utilizing body fat
deposits for energy and reducing the amount of fat we carry on our
bodies. Why don't we just eliminate fats from our diets completely?
You couldn't do it even if you wanted to. The body requires about 5%
fat content in the diet. It would be had to obtain a balanced diet
consuming only 5% fat. The chances of becoming fat deficient are
extremely low. When you consider that most Americans consume 40-50%
fat in their diets, 5% is hard to imagine. The American Heart
Association reccomends 30% fat with only 10% of it coming from
saturated sources. Through experience, I have learned that people can
MAINTAIN their weight at 30% fat, but in order to LOSE body fat, it
is usually necessary to cut their intake to 10-20%. The problem is
usually exercise. It's not that hard to cut down on fat intake by
utilizing substitutions and modifications in recipes. The problem
most people seem to have is finding the time to participate in an
aerobic excercise program. It's just a matter of routines. A healthy
lean body is something money can't buy. It is accomplished through
hard work and dedication which only YOU can give yourself. the reward
is well worth the effort.

A FORMULA TO HELP YOU REMEMBER:

A 2000 calorie diet which is 10% fat has 200 fat calories or 22 fat
grams. A 2000 calorie diet which is 20% fat has 400 fat calories or
44 fat grams. A 2000 calorie diet which is 30% fat has 600 fat
calories or 66 fat grams.

Here is a sample calculation for a 30% fat diet: 2000 calories x
30%=600 fat calories. There are 9 calories in one gram of fat, so 600
fat calories divided by 9=66 grams of fat.

In order to lose weight, I recommend a diet containing between 10-20%
fat. The choice is up to you. Choose a percentage you can live with
and stick to it. Your goal is a permanent life style change, not a
quick fix weight loss!
Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Sahw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

