Title: Pepper, history
Categories: Vegetable, Herbs/spice, Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
PEPPER (piper nigrum); native to East Indies; imported from India,
Indonesia, Borneo and Malaysia; is the world's most popular spice;
ancient Greeks and Romans used both White and Black pepper for
cooking; in early 5th century, 3,000 pounds pepper was demanded for
ransom of Rome; in 1179 A.D Guild of Pepperers was founded in London;
Marco Polo wrote of great quantities of pepper used in China; the
dried fruit or berry of climbing vine which grows on spikes like
currants; available as whole Black Pepper (peppercorns), ground white
pepper, ground black pepper, coarse

grind black pepper, and cracked black pepper; to obtain black pepper,
berries are picked before fully ripe and they turn black and shrivel
when dried; to obtain white pepper, berries are allowed to ripen
before harvesting and the outer shell is removed, leaving
greyish-white kernel; has a hot, biting and very pungent taste; white
pepper is milder in flavor than black pepper; has slight musty
flavor. USES...Peppercorns or whole black peppers are used in pepper
mills. Grind the pepper over foods at the table or when food is being
prepared. Peppercorns are also used in some salad dressings,
marinades, pickling, poaching fish, soups, sauces, and stews. Ground
white pepper is especially popular in white or light colored foods
where the dark specks of black pepper do not add to the aesthetic
appearance.  White pepper may be substituted for black pepper in any
recipe. Black pepper comes in three different grinds - fine, coarse
and cracked. Black pepper may be used in any dish except sweets.
However, it is sometimes used in cake and is a characteristic
ingredient in the German Christmas cookie, pfeffernusse. SUGGESTED
AMOUNTS TO USE IN VARIOUS DISHES PEPPERCORNS 10 - 12 in marinade for
sauerbraten, 4 pounds beef 4 - 6 in liquid for poaching 1 - 2 pounds
fish 8 - 10 in liquid when boiling chicken, shrimp, pot roast and
variety meats such as tongue GROUND BLACK PEPPER 1/8 - 1/2 tsp in
spice cake mix 1/8 - 1/2 tsp to a 7 ounce can tuna for salad 1/4 -
1/2 tsp in pfeffernusse recipe making 6 dozen cookies. COARSE GRIND
BLACK PEPPER 1/4 - 1/2 tsp in 1-1/2 cups French or other salad
dressings 1/8 - 1 tsp in 2 cups marinade for meats 1/8 - 1/4 tsp
sprinkled over 1 pound steak, chops, fish, chicken or liver before
broiling. CRACKED BLACK PEPPER 1 - 2 tsp to 1 pound stead for
peppered steak 1/2 - 1 tsp in 2 cups marinade for meats 1/8 tsp to
each individual salad bowl of chef's or tossed salad GROUND WHITE
PEPPER dash - 1/8 tsp to 6 eggs - stuffed, scrambled, creamed or for
omelettes 1/8 - 1/4 tsp in 2 cups mashed potatoes. 1/4 tsp in 2 cups
white or light colored sauce 1/8 - 1/4 tsp in 2 cups vichyssoise or
other light-colored soups 1/8 - 1/4 tsp for 1 pound fish 1/8 - 1/4
tsp for 1 head cauliflower Origin: Spices of the World Cookbook, by
McCormick Shared by: Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-31-95

