Title: Toddlers & Eating Part 2
Categories: Kids, Information
HOW KIDS EAT
Yield: 1 servings

As long as you're taking care in the feeding of your infant, you
probably don't need to worry that he isn't getting enough of these
important vitamins and minerals. During the first few months of life,
babies get all the nutrients they need from breast milk or infant
formula. "Most breastfed babies who are nursing adequately do well
nutritionally for the first three or four months," says Dr. Hatch.

Infant formulas, which are fortified, with essential vitamins and
minerals, also meet a baby's nutritional needs. One reason your
doctor might recommend a supplement is if he or she feels your child
is not getting enough fluoride. Breastfed babies also have special
fluoride needs. Ask your pediatrician whether your breastfed infant
should receive a fluoride supplement.

When your child starts eating baby food, his nutrition needs will
increase. A breastfed four-month-old may no longer be getting enough
vitamin D, for example. If his exposure to sunlight is limited your
pediatrition may recommend vitamin D supplements. This isn't
necessary for formula-fed babies, since infant formulas are
supplemented with vitamin D.

As your child approaches her first birthday, she's still getting lots
of vitamins and minerals from breast milk or formula. But as she
begins to eat more solid foods and fruit juices, you need to keep a
watchful eye on her diet. "Some young children begin to grow more
slowly because they drink too much juice and cut way back on
breastmilk or formula," says Rarback.

*Taken from an article by Mindy G. Hermann, in the Spring/Summer 1993
issue of Healthy Kids - Birth to 3, from the AAP* -Posted for you by
Michelle Bruce
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-09-95

