Title: Vitamin & Mineral Guide (kids)
Categories: Kids, Information
This guide will first list the name of the vitamin or mineral,
Yield: 1 servings
then what each one does, followed by what foods they are in.

VITAMIN A and CAROTENE -Helps normal vision, strengthens immunity,
Protects cells from damage (beta carotene). Dairy products, liver,
eggs, green leafy vegetables, orange fruits and vegetables. THIAMIN
(VITAMIN B1) -Helps get energy from foods, help build muscles from
protein in foods. Whole grain cereal, pork, legumes, fortified grain
products. RIBOFLAVIN (VITAMIN B2) -Helps get energy from foods, helps
build muscles from protein in foods. Dairy products, meat, poultry,
fish. NIACIN (VITAMIN B3) -Helps get energy from foods, helps build
muscles from protein in foods. Meat, fortified grain products.
VITAMIN B6 -Helps get energy from foods, helps build muscles from
protein in foods. Chicken, fish, pork, soybeans, oats. VITAMIN B12
~Helps get energy from foods, helps build muscles from protein in
foods. Meat, poultry, fish, dairy products. BIOTIN -Assists the body
in making glucose. Liver, eggs, cereal. VITAMIN C -Helps fight
infections, essential for skin health and healing. Citrus fruits,
fortified juice, green leafy vegetables, potatoes. CALCIUM -A key
mineral in bone development and formation. Dairy products, tofu made
with calcium, green leafy vegetables. VITAMIN D -Necessary for bone
building. Dairy products, exposure to sunlight. VITAMIN E -Protects
cells from damage. Vegetable oils, margarine, nuts, green leafy
vegetables. FLUORIDE -Helps form strong teeth and fights cavities.
Fluoridated water, toothpaste. FOLATE -Involved with growth of
tissues and muscles. Liver, green leafy vegetables, dried beans
(legumes). IRON -Carries oxygen in the blood. Meat, poultry, eggs,
fortified cereal. VITAMIN K -Required for blood clotting. Green leafy
vegetables, dairy products. PANTOTHENIC ACID -Helps get energy from
foods, helps build muscles from protein in foods. Meat, poultry,
fish, whole grain cereal, legumes. ZINC -Is required for proper
growth. Meat, seafood, liver, eggs. *From an article in the
Spring/Summer 1993 issue of Healthy Kids by the AAP* -Posted for you
by Michelle Bruce Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-09-95

