Title: KAHLUA CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING-PART 2
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 6 Servings
See below
See part 1
TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6167   YIELD:  6 SERVINGS
In a very large bowl, whisk together thoroughly the
eggs, egg yolks, sugar, and vanilla. Stir 1/4 cup of
this custard mixture into the chocolate to temper it,
then add all of the chocolate mixture back into the
custard. Add the bread cubes to the bowl, toss until
they are evenly coated, and let sit in the
refrigerator for 20 minutes. Pour into prepared loaf
pan and place in a larger pan. Fill the larger pan
with boiling water to come halfway up the sides of the
loaf pan. Top with pecan streusel and bake for about 2
hours, until center feels slightly firm. While
cooking, make the Kahlua sauce.

In the top of a double boiler, melt the butter and
then add the Kahlua and sugar.  Whisk until sugar is
dissolved. Whisk 1 tablespoon of the Kahlua mixture
into the egg to temper it, then return the whole
mixture to the double boiler and cook, stirring
constantly, over simmering water until slightly
thickened.  Strain into a warmed pitcher and cover
with foil to keep warm. Slice the warm pudding and
serve with a pool of the warm Kahlua sauce on one side
of the plate and a spoonful of whipped cream on the
other.

