Title: KARNABEET MAKLY (DEEP-FRIED CAULIFLOWER)
Categories: Appetizers, Middle east, Snacks, Vegetables
Yield: 6 Servings
1 lg Cauliflower
1 ts Salt
Oil for deep fat frying
Taratoor Sauce
Cut away the thick stem at the base of the cauliflower
and remove the green leaves.  Break the florets off
the center core and cut the core into 1" cubes.  Wash
the florets and cubes under cold running water. In a 3
to 4 qt enameled or stainless steel saucepan, bring 1
qt of water and the salt to a boil over high heat.
Drop in the cauliflower and cook briskly, uncovered,
for 10 minutes, or until the pieces are tender but
still somewhat resistant to the point of a small,
sharp knife. Drain in a sieve or colander. In a heavy
10" to 12" skillet with a deep frying thermometer or
in an electric skillet, heat 1" or 2" of oil until it
reaches a temperature of 375F.  Pat the cauliflower
completely dry with paper towels, and a dozen or so
pieces at a time, fry them in the hot oil for about 15
minutes, or until golden brown on all sides. As they
brown, remove them with a slotted spoon and drain them
on paper towels. They may be served hot or at room
temperature covered with taratoor.

