Title: KATHY'S EGG & TUNA SALAD
Categories: Eggs, Fish, Salads, Sandwiches
Yield: 1 Text file  I've frequently made an egg and tuna salad without
mayo (NEVER made it with Miracle Whip, as I can't
stand the stuff).

Here's a rough guideline to go by (I tend to make tuna
salad with whatever's on hand, so it varies a LOT):

Drain a can of water-packed tuna, and dump into a
bowl.  Add a couple of hardboiled eggs, chopped, maybe
a half of a chopped green Bell pepper, half a chopped
red Bell pepper, a couple of green onions, finely
minced, a rib of celery, including a generous portion
of leaves, finely minced, sometimes a few chopped
green or black olives. Moisten the mixture with either
a good oil and vinegar dressing, or a few tablespoons
of your favorite fat-free Italian dressing.

This makes a good filling for pita bread.

If you like, you can turn this into a dinner salad by
adding cooked pasta (rotini, elbow macaroni, whatever
suits your fancy).  I've also tossed in chopped
artichoke hearts on occasion (in which case, the
marinade from the artichokes, plus a little vinegar
becomes the dressing.

If I want a really SERIOUS salad, I'll also toss in
some thawed but uncooked frozen mixed vegetables (the
Italian-type mixes are particularly good). Garnish
with sliced cucumber, maybe some radish roses or
whatever.

Kathy in Bryan, TX

