Title: KEITETYT RAVUT (DILL-FLAVORED CRAYFISH)
Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Appetizers
Yield: 3 Servings
3 qt Cold water
1/4 c  Salt
3 tb Dill seed
3 lg Bunches Dill; fresh
30    Crayfish; fresh-water, live
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
1 bn Dill
Toasted white bread
"Scandinadian crayfish are small - about 3 inches in
length - and are similar to the fresh-water crayfish
of the Midwestern, Southern and Western United States.
The Finns are extremely fond of these delicate
shellfish and easily eat 10 to 20 apiece - usually
accompanied by chilled vodka."
In a 6-8 quart kettle, combine the water, salt, dill
seed and 2 of the bunches of fresh dill ties with a
string. Bring to a boil over high heat and boil
briskly, uncovered for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, wash the
crayfish carefully under cold running water. Drop
them, a few at a time, into the rapidly boiling water.
When all of the crayfish have been added, cover the
kettle tightly and boil about 6 or 7 minutes. Line a
2-3 quart bowl with the sprigs of the third bunch of
fresh dill. Remove the crayfish from the kettle with a
slotted spoon and arrange them in the bowl over the
dill sprigs. Strain the stock over the crayfish
through a fine sieve and let them rest in the liquid
until they have reached room temperature. Then cover
the bowl loosely with plastic wrap and refrigerate for
at least 12 hours; they may marinate as long as 2 days
if you wish. To serve, drain the crayfish of their
liquid, pile them high on a platter and garnish with
fresh dill. Although they can be served cold, the
crayfish are at their best if they are allowed to
reach room temperature. Serve with toast.

