Title: KEY LIME CAKE (2 OF 2)
Categories: Desserts, Cakes
Yield: 8 Servings
-Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
-DIRECTIONS:
To make cake: Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Brush the
inside of an 8-inch (6-cup) bundt or a 9-inch (8-cup)
spring form tube pan with margarine or oil or spray
with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside. In a small
mixing bowl, stir together flour, baking powder and
salt. In a large mixing bowl, beat margarine (or
butter and oil) with electric beaters until softened
and blended. Gradually add sugar and beat until well
blended. Gradually beat in eggs. Beat in lime zest and
juice. Using a wooden spoon or rubber spatula,
alternatively stir the dry ingredients and buttermilk
into the egg mixture, beginning and ending with the
dry ingredients. Spoon the mixture into the prepared
pan and bake for 45 to 50 minutes, or until a cake
tester inserted into the center comes out clean and
the cake starts to pull away from the sides of the
pan. Loosen edges and invert onto a wire rack set over
a plate. To make syrup: In a small bowl, whisk
together confectioners' sugar and lime juice. While
the cake is still warm, poke holes in it using a
skewer or cake tester. Slowly spoon the lime syrup
over the cake, spooning any juice that accumulates on
the plate below over the cake. (The cake can be
prepared ahead and stored, covered, in the
refrigerator for up to 24 hours. Bring to room
temperature before serving.) Just before serving, sift
a little confectioners' sugar over the cake. Serves 8.

345 calories per serving: 10 grams fat, 259 mg sodium
and 54 mg cholesterol. COMMENTS: The shrubby Key lime
tree, with its thorny branches, produces yellow limes
that resemble small lemons. Since Key limes can be
expensive and are not always easy to find, Persian
(green) limes or bottled Key lime juice from the local
grocery store can be substituted.

Source: Eating Well Magazine - March/April, 1992

Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C &
C.MINEAH

