Title: L.J'S CHILI
Categories: Chili, Main dish, Mexican, Ethnic
Yield: 10 Servings  3 lbs of stewing beef 3 cans of red kidney beans (14oz) 2 cans of
brown beans (14 oz) 1 can of Hunts tomato paste (large) 1 cup of
ketchup 2 large green peppers 2 large red peppers 2 teaspoons black
pepper
salt to taste 1/2 cup of chili powder 1 cup of mashed potatoes
(cooked) 1/4 mashed banana 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 large can
tomatoes (quart) prefer home canned 1 tablespoon crushed chillis (to
suit more or less) 1 tablespoon black mollases 1 teaspoon Cumin 1
teaspoon Oregano 2 large Spanish onions (you have'ta shed tears when
slicing these) 3 cans of mushrooms (8 oz.cans)

Cut beef into 1 inch chunks or thereabouts. Let beef soak in a bowl
with the tomatoes and juice, lemon juice, mushrooms, black pepper,
crushed chilis and onions over night. Brown the meat in a skillet. In
large pot throw in the tomatoes and crushed chillis, onions, meat,
paste, everything except the beans and peppers and slow cook for
three hours. Next chop your green and red peppers into long slivers
or if you prefer diced. Also stir in your beans and cook slowly for
one more hour. All cooking must not have the lid on. With the thick
"soupy" ring around the pot; stir back into the simmering chili.

You might like the chili hotter or maybe milder, depends on your
taste. What ever you do, don't ruin the chili by making it hotter
with hot sauces, this has a tendency to make the chili into
"superficial" body heat not a deep solid heat. To accompany the chili
try and get your hands on some "Agua Dente" (fire water) 80% alcohol
(national drink in Colombia). I guarantee you will see God!

