Title: LOWFAT LAMB RECIPE
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 1 Servings
-==================
Ingredients:

lamb gigot chops (slices across the leg, with the bone removed)
breadcrumbs (1 slice of bread ground in a food processor) 1 clove
chopped garlic 1 handful of parsley Dijon mustard a little vegetable
stock Use lamb gigot chops (these are slices across the leg, with the
bone removed.) Cut off all visible fat.

Start by making a mix of breadcrumbs and chopped garlic and parsley,
to taste (I put a slice of notquitefresh bread in a food processor
with a clove of garlic and a handful of fresh parsley).

Heat a heavy pan without adding any fat  a nonstick frying pan for
example. I used a shallow Le Creuset casserole for the whole thing.

When its really hot, drop in the lamb chops.  They should seal at
once. Count to about 20, then turn. Count to 20 again. The chops
should be a definate brown. Lift out of pan and place in roasting
tin. Spread a thick layer of Dijon mustard onto chops.  Put a thick
layer of crumb mixture on top  its OK if some falls off into the
dish. Cook at 220 C (sorry don't kow other measures) for 20 minutes.
Remove from oven. Lift out chops to warmed serving dish.  Place
roasting tin on top of stove and deglaze with a little vegetable
stock.  Thicken with cornflour/arrowroot if you like.

Pour gravy over and serve.

I served this with baked potatoes (this is the correct UK spelling)
and steamed veggies (broccoli, mangetout and baby sweetcorn). It was
lovely.

A variant might be to deglaze the pan with a little red wine, and
thicken with redcurrant jelly.

This was really yummy, and my nondieting hubby loved it too. I had
two very small chops (probably totalled 4oz) He had two very large
chops. Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.40

