Title: MAPLE SNOW (CANADA)
Categories: Snacks
Yield: 4 Children
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
1 c  Of clean snow;
->OR<-
1    Tray of ice cubes;
1/2 c  Maple syrup;
MMMMM-------------------------EQUIPMENT------------------------------
Pan or bowl
Measuring cup
Saucepan
4 small paper cups
Tablespoon
How to Make:  Fill a pan with snow.  Be sure it is clean. Have all
your ingredients ready before you bring in the snow, so it doesn't
have time to melt. If there isn't any snow, make crushed ice. An easy
way to do this is wrap a few cubes of ice at time in a kitchen towel
and pound them with a heavy object, such as a rolling pin. Put the
crushed in a bowl. Continue until all the cubes are crushed. Heat the
maple syrup in the saucepan over low heat for about two minutes until
it is warm. Remove it from the heat. Fill each paper cup with enough
snow or ice to make a rounded top. Drop a tablespoon or more of maple
syrup on top of the snow or ice. Note: You can use either pure maple
syrup or maple-flavored syrup for this recipe.

STORY: In the center of Canada's flag is a red maple leaf-a symbol of
Canada's many maple trees.  No wonder everyone likes to turn out in
the early spring to help collect the sweet liquid from the sugar
maples. The snow is still on the ground.  The sap is gathered and
boiled down into maple syrup.  As a special treat, the hot syrup is
poured over fresh snow. With cider and doughnuts, cups of sweet Maple
Snow make festive refreshments at a sugaring-off party.

Source: Many Hands Cooking, an International Cookbook for Girls and
Boys for UNICEF(1974) by Terry Touff Cooper and Marilyn Ratner
Brought to you and yours via Nancy O'Brion and her Meal Master.

