Title: A Plethora Of Kreplach
Categories: Side dish, Breads, Jewish
Yield: 1 servings
======================
A PLETHORA OF KREPLACH
Kreplach are like Jewish ravioli. These delectable filled dumplings
are usually added to sopus (especially chicken soup). They can also
be eaten as a side dish, boiled, sauteed in margarine, or fried and
served with Onion Sauce. Fruit kreplach such as cherry varnikas, make
a good side dish. Meat kreplach are often served on Purim, Erev Yom
Kipper, or Hoshanah Rabbah, while the cheese variety is popular on
Shavuot or Chanukah.
....................................................................
CLASSIC KREPLACH DOUGH====================== 2 ea Eggs 3-4 tb Water
1/2 ts Salt pn White Pepper 2 tb Oil 2 c Flour; sifted Beat eggs,
adding water, salt, pepper and oil. Stir in flour. Mix until smooth
and soft. Add a little flour if too sticky. Knead for 5 minutes.
Cover and let rest at least 20 minutes. Divide into 3 parts. Roll out
each part into a rectangle 1/8 inch thick. Cut into 3-inch squares or
circles and place a teaspoonful of filling in center. Fold diagonally
to make a triangle. Wet edges with cold water or egg white and pinch
to seal. To cook, drop gently into a large pot of boiling salted
water or soup and simmer for 15-20 minutes. serve in soup, or fry
inoil and serve as a side dish with Onion Sauce. Yields 30 kreplach.
SPINACH KREPLACH DOUGH OR NOODLES: To make spinach kreplach dough,
omit water and oil and add 1/4 cup of chopped, cooked spinach,
drained and squeezed out. Knead for 3 minutes. Let rest for 10
minutes. Roll out into rectangles 1/8 inch thick. Proceed as
directed. For green spinach noodles, roll verythinly. Let dry and cut
into thin strips with a sharp knife. KREPLACH FILLINGS AND
ACCOMPANIMENTS ===================================== MEAT KREPLACH
FILLING ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 md Onin; diced 1 ea Garlic Clove;
minced 2 tb Oil 2 1/2 c  Cooked Chicken, Beef or liver; diced or
ground 1/8 ts Pepper pn Cinnamon In a large skillet, saute onion and
garlic in oil over medium heat until tender. Add meat and seasonings
and cook for 10 minutes while stirring. SAVOURY CHEESE KREPLACH
FILLING ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 1/2 lb Farmer Cheese 1/2 c
Cheddar Cheese; grated 2 tb Maragrine; melted 2 ea Eggs; beaten 2 tb
Onion; chopped Mix ingredients together throroughly. Fill dough and
seal. Boil for 15-20 minutes, then fry in oil. SWEET CHEESE KREPLACH
FILLING ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 1/2 lb Farmer Cheese 4 tb
Sugar 2 tb Maragrine; melted 1/2 ts Cinnamon 1/8 ts Salt 2 ea Eggs 1
ts Lemon Rind; grated Mix all ingredients together thoroughly. Fill
dough and seal. CHERRY KREPLACH (VARNIKAS) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3/4 c Cherry Juice <<***** Continued Next Message *****>> ++- *
VbReader 2.22 #549 * A true friend is the best possession. ++-
QScan/PCB v1.15b / 01-0348 * Origin: FidoNet: CRS Online, Toronto,
Ontario (1:229/15) From: Sam Lefkowitz Date: 05-04-95 Subject:
Kreplach not Klepach(2/2)
======================================================================
==== ==== <<***** Split Message. Part 2 Of 2 *****>> 2 tb Cornstarch
1 1/2 c Pitted Cherries (or Blueberries) x Oil for frying Combine
juice and cornstarch in a saucepan. Cook while stirring until
thickened. Stir in cherries (or blueberries) and cook for another
minute. Fill dough and seal. Boil for 15 minutes, then fry in oil.
ONION SAUCE ~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 lg Onions; diced 4 tb Oil 2 tb Flour;
sifted 1 c Water 1/2 ts Salt 1/4 ts White Pepper pn Cinnamon 1/3 c
Cheddar Cheese; grated (optional) Saute onions in oil until golden,
stirring occasionally. Stir in flour until smooth. Continue stirring
and pour in water. Cook until thickened. Stir in remaining
ingredients, adding cheese, if desired, to serve with dairy kreplach.
Yields 1 1/4 cups. From: Classic Kosher Cooking by Sara Finkel
Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   05-04-95

