Title: Bowties (Chrusti) (Patty Smith), part 2
Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Pasta
Yield: 3 servings
2 ts Vanilla
3    To 5 eggs
Hot fat at 375 degrees
Powdered sugar
2 1/2 c  Flour
1/2 c  Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
2 tb Butter (or shortening)
Chrusti -- Lover's Knots (Grandma Sheila)

Sift the flour, sugar and salt together.  Cut in butter.  Add vanilla
to 3 eggs and beat until light and frothy.  Mix into the flour. Beat
additional egg or eggs until frothy and add if needed to make the
dough easily handled.  Knead on lightly floured board for 3 minutes.

Roll dough about 1/8 inch thich and cut with floured knife into
strips 1 1/2 inches wide and 4 inches long.  Make slash 1 inch long
in center of each piece. Lift and carefully slip one end through the
slit. This forms the knot.

Drop the knots carefully into deep fat being careful not to crowd
them. Fry until they are light golden brown on one side, turn and fry
on other side. (They are done when fork inserted comes out clean).
Remove, drain on paper towel.  When cool, toss in a bag with powdered
sugar.

Makes about 3 dozen

From A World of Good Eating

****************************************************************

From Patty Smith:

Here is another Bowtie Cookie recipe that I found in a magazine and
the picture sure looks good.  It appeared in Family Circle 12/06/83.
It doesn't have shortening in it.  It adds extra vanilla and grated
lemon rind which probably make this cookie a bit zippier than the
other version I posted.

Crispy Bowtie Cookies

2 eggs 2 Tbsp sugar 2 c sifted flour 2 Tbsp vanilla 1 tsp grated
lemon rind Oil for frying Powdered sugar

Beat together the eggs and sugar in a medium size bowl until the
mixture is light and fluffy.  Stir in 1 1/2 c of the flour, the
vanilla and lemon rind until blended.  Shape into a ball. Turn the
dough out onto lightly floured surface.  Knead until the dough is
smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes; add as much of the remaining
flour as necessary to prevent sticking. Cover with plastic wrap.  Let
rest 5 minutes.

Divide dough into 4 equal portions.  Roll 1/4 of the dough to 1/8 inch
thickness.  Keep remaining dough covered with plastic wrap while
working with the one fourth.  Cut into 5 x 1 1/2 inch strips with
pastry wheel or pizza cutter.  Make a lenghwise slit about 1 inch
long in center of each strip. Pull one end through the slit to make a
bowtie. As you work, keep bowties covered with plastic wrap. Repeat
with remaining dough.

Pour oil into large saucepan or Dutch oven to a depth of 4 inches.
Heat oil until it registers 375 degrees on a deep fat frying
thermometer, or until a 1 inch cube of white bread turns golden brown
in about 50 seconds. Transfer 3 or 4 cookies to the hot oil with
metal spatula. Fry cookies for a total of 3 minutes or until golden
brown, turning once. Drain on paper toweling; cool.  Keep unfried
bowties covered with plastic wrap.  Fry remaining cookies. Store in
tightly covered container.  Sprinkle with powdered sugar just before
serving.

Makes about 2 dozen

I made the other version last week and I found refrigerating the
dough as the recipe stated hard to roll out to a thin layer. Plus we
liked the cookies that were thinner...they were crispier. I am going
to try this recipe soon as I think my family will like the extra
vanilla flavor with the hint of lemon. Hope you enjoy them.

