Title: Creole-Style Quinoa
Categories: Nuts/grains
Yield: 4 servings
No Ingredients Found
QUINOA COMBINES WELL WITH SPICY TOMATO SAUCE
============================================

Cooks looking for affordable ways to round out meals will be happy to
hear that this ancient grain from the Andes has more protein of a
higher quality than any other grain. The tiny seeds are very light,
digestible and versatile. Cookbook author Steven Raichlen serves
quinoa in a spicy tomato sauce and this dish is adapted from his new
cookbook, "High Flavor, Low-Fat Vegetarian Cooking" (Viking).
CREOLE-STYLE QUINOA =================== 1 c Quinoa * 2 c Water x Salt
1 tb Oilve Oil 1 lg Onion; finely chopped 3 ea Garlic Cloves; minced
1/2 ea Red Bell Pepper; seeded; finely chopped 1/2 ea Green Bell
Pepper; seeded; finely chopped 1 lg Ripe Tomato; finely chopped 2-3
ts Ground Cumin 2-3 ts Dried Oregano 1 c Dry White Wine or Chicken
Broth 1/2 c Tomato Sauce 2 ea Bay Leaves x Salt and Freshly Ground
Pepper 1 c  Cooked Black Beans (optional) 1/4 c Fresh Parsley; minced
* Often sold in grains section at bulk food store Rinse quinoa
thoroughly in cod water to remove any bitterness. Strain and rinse
again. Bring water to boil, add salt to taste and stir in quinoa.
Lower heat, cover pan and cook about 15 minutes. Taste grin, there
should be a little resistance and the opaque spiraled ring of of germ
should show. Pour into strainer, set over bowl to drain. While quinoa
is cooking, heat oil in large non-stick frying pan. Add onion, garlic
and peppers. Cook over medium heat for 4 to 5 minutes or until
tender. Stir in tomatoes, cumin and oregano, cook 1 minute. Stir in
wine or chicken broth, bring to boil. stir in tomato sauce and bay
leaves. Simmer until sauce is thick ++ about 5 minutes. stir in
cooked quinoa, black beans if using and half the parsley. Cook over
medium heat for 5 minutes or until heated through, stirring often.
Correct seasoning. Remove and discard bay leaves. Sprinkle with
remaining parsley. Makes 4 servings, each with 507 calories, 9 grams
fat and no cholesterol. From An Article: Quinoa Combines Well With
Spicy Tomato Sauce. Article By: Mary McGrath in the Toronto Star, 28
April, 1995 Transcribed By: S.Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   05-01-95

