Title: Fricassee De Poulet a la Poitevine (Chicken in Onion Sauc
Categories: French, Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
25 g  (1 oz) butter
2 tb Flour
1 kg (2 lb) onions
1    Chicken (1.5-2 kg [3-4 lb])
Salt, black pepper
The regional recipes of France have evolved throughout time to
complement the local wines.  Hence the rich recipes of Burgundy,
Poitou and Vendee produce wines of lesser glory and their recipes, in
consequence, are more homely-but none the less appetizing when served
with the 'little' wines of the region.

Peel the onions, quarter them and slice thickly.

Wipe the chicken inside and out with a cloth wrung out in boiling
water. Cut into 10 serving pieces:  2 drumsticks, 2 thighs, 2 wings
and 2 breasts halved.  Season each piece on both sides.  Melt the
butter in a sauteuse or large frying pan over low heat and when
foaming add the chicken and colour to the golden stage on both sides.
Remove from the pan with a slotted spoon, cover and keep hot.  Add
the onions to the fats in the pan, season, increase the heat to
medium, mix well and colour to the golden stage, moving them around
with a wooden spatula to prevent sticking and colouring too fast.

Sprinkle with half the flour and mix in thoroughly before adding the
remainder.  Cook for a few moments, stirring constantly, reduce the
heat to low, add the vinegar, stir well and arrange the chicken on
top. Cover and cook slowly for about 40 minutes until the chicken is
tender and the moisture from the onions has made the sauce.  During
this time shake the pan frequently and do not lift the lid except to
stir the ingredients twice.  Correct the seasoning if necessary and
serve very hot with plain boiled potatoes.

Makes 6 servings.

From "The French Farmhouse Kitchen", Eileen Reece, Exeter Books,
1984. ISBN 0-671-06542-4

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; May 12 1993.

