Title: Fried Chicken
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 ts Pepper
1    Chicken, cut up
2/3 c  Lard or oil
1/3 c  Buttermilk
1/2 c  Flour
1 ts Salt
From Jean Hores:

After 6 years of experience, I have found that it's not the
ingredients as much as how you cook fried chicken.  First thing you
need is a cast iron skillet, Crisco oil, salt, pepper, and flour.
Heat oil in skillet enough to cover chicken about 1/3 thickness. Heat
until when you flip a little flour into skillet it sizzles. Place
chicken floured with seasoning in oil. Leave heat on medium high
until chicken is golden on one side then over and brown on the other
side. Turn heat down to low and cook until chicken is almost done.
Five minutes before the chicken is done, turn the heat to high and it
will pull oil out of chicken. Chicken is golden in color and not at
all greasy. Great cold even.

P.S.  Turn chicken only once.  Recipe is from a 75 year old from
MISSISSIPPI who has never heard of back chicken.

Southern Fried Chicken (Tom Bagnall)

You can substitute peanut or corn oil for frying, but lard will give
that true southern fried flavor.  I always drein fried chicken on the
unprinted side of brown paper grocery bags.  It sounds silly but I'm
convinced it makes a difference.

Place buttermilk in a shallow dish.  combine flour, salt, and pepper
in a bag.  Dip chicken pieces in buttermilk.  Place one or two pieces
at a time in the bag and shake to coat.

In a large deep frying pan, melt lard over medium high heat to 375
degrees. Add chicken pieces and cook, turning frequently, until brown
and crisp, 20-25 minutes.  Drain on unprinted side of brown paper
grocery bags.

* QMPro 1.0 90-8356 * New Jersey, The Garden State

~-- WILDMAIL!/WC v4.11 * Origin: The Magic Dominion 1:107/614 n.j.
908-583-7894 28.8 (1:107/614.0)

Packet: NARROWS Date: 05-10-95 (06:35) Number: 16126 From: Pat
Stockett Refer#: NONE To: Carolyn Shaw Recvd: NO Subj: Re: New Toys
34/56 Conf: (159) FIDO: Cooking

Hi Carolyn!

CS>I'm sorry.......I just can't help it. I am obsessed. Hello, my
name is >Carolyn, I am a chocolate-recipe-cooking echos-kitchen
toy-a-holic. >Please do not try to cure me. :)

Never change!  We like you just the way you are. :-)  I just don't
know how you always find such great new cookbooks.  Maybe we just
have the same tastes. :-)

CS>I'm not done with it, those are just the pasta recipes. There are
>ravioli fillings and sauces yet...and some of them look REALLY
good....

Good.  I have a ravioli press.  I don't use it often but it's a neat
gadget.  Here's one you might enjoy. :-)

~Begin Recipe Export- QBook version 1.00.14

