Title: Microwave Chicken
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 1 servings
1    Free Flow Recipe
This isn't a recipe per se but rather a method of 'browning' a
chicken in the microwave.  You can combine the process with other
recipes and come up with a really delicious, visually appealing dish.
This is from "Micro Wave Meats Step-Step." It's part of the Micro
Wave Cooking School series put out by Litton.  Barbara Methven wrote
it.

"When a whole chicken is microwaved uncovered, it is similar to
conventionally roasted.  The skin does not crisp but it develops some
browning.  For more even color, use a browning agent or a glaze.  To
prevent streaking, scrub off any oily film on the chicken skin with a
vegetable brush and hot water before applying the browning mixture.

"Wash and dry chicken well.  Mix equal parts bouquet sauce and melted
butter; rub or brush it into skin.  (If preferred, glaze chicken
after half the cooking time.)

"Place chicken breast side down in baking dish.  Microwave at High
for the first 3 minutes.  Reduce power to 50% (Medium).  Microwave
for remainder of first half of time.

"Turn breast side up.  (Glaze, if desired.) Microwave for second half
of time, or until legs move freely and inner thigh meat is done." The
bouquet sauce she refers to is Kitchen Bouquet or any similar
product. I've used thick soy with good results.  (Add a little sherry
and ginger and you end up with Soy Sauce Chicken.) It's best to rub
the sauce in with your fingers.  If you use a brush it will probably
cover as uniformly. About 1 teaspoon of butter or margarine and an
equal amount of soy or bouquet seem to be about right for a whole
chicken.

The result is really amazing.  The chicken comes out moist and
tender, much like a Chinese steamed chicken only brown.  It's good
just that way with various Oriental dips++mustard, chopped up green
onions, hoisin sauce, etc.++if you're into that.  I don't use my
microwave much for primary cooking but this is one dish that I do use
it for. In fact, I got so hungry looking at the pictures that I think
I'll go nuke one now!

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg; January 28 1991.

