Title: Saffron Resources
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
1    Text Only
If this thread has you drooling at the mere thought of saffron, here's
where you can get it.

Listed below are resources which will be helpful if you do not
already have a good connection with a purveyor of the spice, the
corms and recipes.

My saffron purveyor for the last three years is listed.  I have
bought many brands in addition to the ones he supplies for comparison
and have found some comparable in quality but never in price or
airtight packaging. You need to buy a minimum of 1/2 ounce from him.

A source for liquid saffron, the only one available as far as I know,
is also listed.  Actually this is saffron extract, not liquid saffron
in that the threads have been steeped in alcohol and water for a
month. There is an obvious advantage in measuring but make sure you
use the extract only when you are cooking or baking.  For me the
alcohol taste is too strong otherwise (for example in a mayonnaise).

ANTIQUARIAN AND OUT-OF-PRINT COOKBOOKS:

Thousands of cookbooks are available with saffron recipes but some of
the more interesting ones are hard to find.  Jim Garrett, owner of
Buchmann, specializes in searches for older titles and found many of
my references.

Buchmann 620 Sutter St. San Francisco, CA 94102 (415) 673-6281

SAFFRON EXTRACT:

Trader Bay 1825 Bush St. San Francisco, CA 94109 (415) 567-5933 (24
hrs.)

SPANISH SAFFRON THREADS AT WHOLESALE PRICES:

Vanilla, Saffron Imports 70 Manchester St. San Francisco, CA 94110
(415) 648-8990 (24 hrs.)

SAFFRON CROCUS CORMS:

Nichols Garden Nursery 1190 North Pacific Hwy. Albany, Ore. 97321
(503) 928-9280

White Flower Farm Litchfield, CT 06759-0050 (203) 496-9600

SAFFRON SWEET BREADS:

They were out the day I went to investigate but the saffron baked
goods sound delicious:  yeast baby loaves or cupcakes filled with
dried fruit and nuts.  The owner is an Englishman, a famous inventor
(first automatic doughnut machine, a pastie machine) who loves
saffron and is still working at age 100.  In this part of California
saffron breads, cupcakes and cookies used to be available in every
family-owned bakery because the Cornish miners created a demand for
them. Several grandchildren wistfully recounted memories for me of
such wonders from grandmothers' kitchens.

Mrs. Dubblebee's Bakery 251-C South Aubum Grass Valley, CA 95945

SAFFRON VINAIGRETTE:

Maurice et Charles, the very well reviewed French Restaurant in Marin
County, CA makes this excellent vinaigrette.  Minimum order is one
case (12, 12 oz. bottles).

Cascade Continental Foods, Inc. 1089 Essex Ave. Richmond, CA 94801
(415) 232-3103

From "Wild About Saffron++A Contemporary Guide to an Ancient Spice",
by Ellen Szita.  Published by Saffron Rose, 28 John Glenn Circle,
Daly City, Ca., 94105.  1987.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; March 30 1993.

