Title: Selecting a Wok
Categories: Information, Wok
Yield: 1 info
No ingredients
Because there are many types of woks available for sale on the
market, the novice wok cook should make some distinction among them.
Some woks are sold individually while others are sold as sets with
lids, rings, etc. The materials that woks are made of are spun sheet
steel, hand hammered iron (low carbon steel), and stainless steel.
There are also teflon coated electric woks. For the beginner, the
author recommends that he purchase a wok set with lid, ring, wok
turner, ladle, and strainer. A wok made of low carbon steel is
preferred are this type of metal is a better conductor of heat. If
one is concerned with appearance, a stainless steel wok is
recommended. It can be scoured with steel wool and restored to
newness after each use. Because stainless steel is a relatively poor
conductor of heat and tends to reflect the heat back to the stove, it
is recommended that a stainless wok be chosen with a slightly
flattened bottom, to provide greater contact with the heating element
of an electric stove.

Regardless of the type of wok that one selects, one should consider
the concaveness of a wok. There are shallow concave woks and deep
concave woks. The best wok shape is a medium concave wok. If a wok is
too deep then the heat of it will be mostly concentrated in the
bottom of it and not enough on the sides. If the wok is too shallow,
again, only the center of it will be heated and sides hardly at all.
For the same reasons of heat conductivity, a thicker gauge wok is
preferred to a thin metal wok.

