Title: Shoulder of Veal Braised in White Wine, Sage & Garlic
Categories: Italian, Meats
Yield: 3 servings
Text Only
This series was inspired by a current plenitude of cheap veal down
under. The column advised buying the small carcasses that were
selling for $2.50 to $3.00 (Oz dollars...) as a way to save money.

Raw Materials would like to be able to tell you the prove- nance of
this recipe but, since we have been cooking it for more years than we
care to remember and. in any case. modified it way back when, to get
rid of the fat, its origins are lost in the mists of time. Given the
ingredients, it probably originated in Italy or France. Don't worry
about the amount of garlic. The long slow cooking tames it completely.

Into a saucepan or pot large enough to take the veal should- er (if
necessary, cut into the joint between the shoulder blade and foreleg
so that it bends more), put 2 or 3 stems of fresh sage or about 2
teaspoons of dried, about 10 peeled cloves of garlic, halved if they
are large, and about 2 cups of dry white wine. Put in the shoulder of
veal, cover the pot and simmer very slowly for 2-2.5 hours. If you
wish, you can add thick slices of potato about three quarters of an
hour before the end of cooking.

Remove the veal, potatoes and garlic cloves to a hot serving dish and
carve the veal into thick slices. Remove and discard the sage from
the cooking liquid, taste it and correct the seasoning, then boil the
liquid fiercely for a couple of minutes to reduce it. Pour over the
veal and potatoes and serve. This liquid will set to a clear,
flavourful aspic, so if you have any veal left over (unlikely),
refrigerate the liquid till it is just beginning to gel, then spoon
several layers of it over the veal. This leaves you with a delicious
cold dish for the next day.

Serves 3 or 4.

From the Sydney Morning Herald, 10/27/92.  Courtesy Mark Herron.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 17 1992.

