Title: The RO*TEL Story
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
No ingredients
RO*TEL originated in the sun-drenched Lower Rio Grande Valley of
Texas, where for a long time it remained the best kept secret in the
country. In the 1940s, cans were only shipped as far away as San
Antonio and Houston and Dallas. Later, RO*TEL Tomatoes and Green
Chilies had slipped their way to the foreign side of the Red River
and were being sopped up in Oklahoma and Arkansas.

In 1963, the wife of one of the country's best-known politicians in
Washington bragged about her recipe for homemade chili in a national
magazine. And, lo and behold, she wrote that her main secret
ingredient was a healthy dose of RO*TEL Tomatoes and Green Chilies.

The rest, as they say, is lots of tasty history. today, with southwest
cooking rampant from sea to shining sea, RO*TEL can be found just
about everywhere. It's the single best seasoning sauce for
southwestern cooking a person's gonna find. You'll even find RO*TEL
at a certain important address on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington,
D.C. That's because the Number One favorite snack of the President
himself, according to newspapers all over the country, if Famous
RO*TEL Cheese Dip - the recipe right off the RO*TEL can, which is
also printed here on page 3.

If you haven't tried RO*TEL, you're in for a treat. As Crazy Sam puts
it: "Have some and you'll wind up grinning like apossum that's been
eating green persimmons."

Only RO*TEL is a heckuva lot better.

