Title: PUMPKIN SOUP (EDWARDS)
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
None
Recently I was at a local restaurant and found they had pumpkin soup,
made without butter!  It was rather like eating hot, liquid pumpkin
pie. I asked for the recipe, and here it is.

I recommend accompanying it with a nice sourdough bread or something
similar.

Cook a medium sized pumpkin, using any method with which you are
comfortable.  The new honey pumpkins now available are really great
for this purpose!  Scoop out the cooked pumpkin, and blend it in the
blender adding non-fat milk or rice dream until the desired thickness
is reached. Return to a pan and season with cinammon, clove, nutmeg
and/or pumpkin pie spice to taste. I don't specify measurements
because everyone has a different idea of how much of these kinds of
spices to use. Heat on low until desired temperature is reached.

For a really special treat, froth up non-fat milk (sweetened if
desired) with a capuccino machine steam thingy, and float mounds on
the top of the soup with pumpkin pie spices on top.

I apologize for the randomness of this recipe, but this is the way it
was given to me, and I find myself experimenting with it often,
changing spices, adding maple syrup for a desert soup, adding
thickener for a pumpking pudding variation.  It's great for a cold
night pick-me-up, and kids love it!

Posted by Shoshana Edwards <bree@netcom.com> to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 13 Issue 30] Dec. 30, 1994.

FATFREE Recipe collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1994. Used
with permission. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

1.80รก

