Title: RECOMMENDED CANNERS (PART 3 OF 3)
Categories: Canning, Information
Yield: 1 Guide  USING PRESSURE CANNERS

Follow these steps for successful pressure canning:

1. Put 2 to 3 inches of hot water in the canner. Place filled jars on
the rack, using a jar lifter. Fasten canner lid securely.

2. Leave weight off vent port or open petcock. Heat at the highest
setting until steam flows from the petcock or vent port.

3. Maintain high heat setting, exhaust steam 10 minutes, and then
place weight on vent port or close petcock. The canner will
pressurize during the next 3 to 5 minutes.

4. Start timing the process when the pressure reading on the dial
gauge indicates that the recommended pressure has been reached, or
when the weighted gauge begins to jiggle or rock.

5. Regulate heat under the canner to maintain a steady pressure at or
slightly above the correct gauge pressure. Quick and large pressure
variations during processing may cause unnecessary liquid losses from
jars. Weighted gauges on Mirro canners should jiggle about 2 or 3
times per minute. On Presto canners, they should rock slowly
throughout the process.

6. When the timed process completed, turn off the heat, remove the
canner from heat if possible, and let the canner depressurize. Do not
force-cool the canner. Forced cooling may result in food spoilage.
Cooling the canner with cold running water or opening the vent port
before the canner is fully depressurized will cause loss of liquid
from jars and seal failures. Force-cooling may also warp the canner
lid of older model canners, causing steam leaks. Depressurization of
older models should be timed. Standard-size heavy-walled canners
require about 30 minutes when loaded with pints and 45 minutes with
quarts. Newer thin-walled canners cool more rapidly and are equipped
with vent locks. These canners are depressurized when their vent lock
piston drops to a normal position.

7. After the canner is depressurized, remove the weight from the vent
port or open the petcock. Wait 2 minutes, unfasten the lid, and
remove it carefully. Lift the lid away from you so that the steam
does not burn your face.

8. Remove jars with a lifter, and place on towel or cooling rack, if
desired.

======================================================= === * USDA
Agriculture Information Bulletin No. 539 (rev. 1994) * Meal-Master
format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

