Title: ROTI DOUGH
Categories: Breads
Yield: 6 Servings
2 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
1 x  Vegetable oil
1/4 ts Baking soda
1 x  Milk to mix
Sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt into a bowl. Add
enough to form a stiff dough.  Knead the dough well on a lightly
floured board, form into 4 or more equal-sized balls. Roll out the
dough thinly to form 8-inch or 12-inch circles.  Then brush on a thin
coating of vegetable oil. Roll into balls again, cover, and allow to
stand for 15 minutes at room temperature.
Roll out the dough again and flatten to the original dimensions by
patting lightly.  Heat a cast-iron or heavy-bottomed frying pan so
that when tested with a drop of water, it sizzles. Place the rotis,
one at a time, in the pan and cook for a minute.  Turn, and spread a
thin layer of vegetable oil on the face of each roti, and turn
frequently until cooked- when brown flecks appear on the surface.
Remove from frying pan and pound between the palms of the until it
becomes supple. Keep rotis warm and moist by covering with a towel.
Yields: 4-6 servings Notes from cookbook: Traditionally rotis are
cooked on a flat iron grid called a tawa, but any heavy skillet or
griddle can be used. If the roti is to be filled with any curried
meat, poultry, or vegetable and eaten as a food, make 12-inch rotis.
Place the filling in the center and fold in the edges. When they are
to be served as a bread to dip up curries, chutney gravies, prepare
8-inch rotis.

