Title: Detmold Sourdough Bread
Categories: Bread, Sourdough
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Sourdough breads, although lower in yeast content than regular yeasted
breads, are never entirely yeast-free.  An exception to this is
sourdough bread using Detmold* starter, a specific strain of
lactobacillus which is able to ferment flour.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%%
PREPARATION OF STARTER, FIRST EVENING  %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

It is best to make a new starter with every batch of bread.  To 1/2
tsp DETMOLD powder, add 1 cup warm (85F) water and approximately 1
cup of flour, such that the mixture has the consistency of thick
soup.  Cover and keep in a warm place (e.g. the oven with light on)
for 24 hours. There should tehn be bubbles in the mixture and a dark
coloured liquid should have separated.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%%
PREPARATION OF STARTER, SECOND EVENING  %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Add the starter
mixture to 8 cups of warm water and optionally cooked sweet rice (see
below).  Add sufficient flour to give the consistency of thick soup.
cover and let sit overnight in a warm place.  The sponge can be made
from water and flour only, but a much sweeter bread results from
using a significant amount of cooked sweet rice.  Twoo cups of dry
sweet rice can be cooked in 8 cups of water and allowed to cool for
the sweet rice ingredient mentioned above.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% PREPARATION OF
DOUGH, NEXT MORNING  %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% The sponge has now
risen, and 1 cup of this could be saved for subsequent starter if kept
refrigerated and used within a few days. However, even in the
refrigerator, the mixture will soon acquire wild yeasts and no longer
be completely yeast-free.  Add to the risen starter more flour until
it becomes a kneadable dough.  This will require 12-18 cups of whole
wheat flour. Knead the dough as little as possible.  Form the dough
into loaves (about 5) and place into well oiled pans. Ordinary bread
pans do work, but the bread tends to be thick crusted and to dry
quickly. Round cans such as coffee cans, or 48 oz juice cans give a
bread that rises better and dries less quickly.  Cover the pans with
aluminum foil and let them sit in a warm place for at least 4 hours.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% BAKING BREAD, AFTERNOON
%%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Place the loaves in a
cold oven and turn the oven to 350F.  Bake for about 1-1/2 hours
TOTAL oven time.  Freeze the bread if it is not going to be used
within the next few days.  It is best to use freezer bags with the
air drawn out, and double sealed. DETMOLD* Starter is available in
health food sotres, or from: Paul Wallenboren, PLAZAM Ltd., Box 127,
Gardner, Colorado. 81040. Origin: Yeast-Free Feast: Recipes and Ideas
to Help Control Yeast Related and other Environmental Health
Problems, by Paula Medd. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Oct/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-05-94

