Title: Diabetic Info on Usa Food Exchanges
Categories: Diabetic
Yield: 1 info/help
1    Info/help
List 1: Starch/Bread Exchange.  Each item in this list contains
approzimately 15 grams of carbohydate, 3 grams of protein, a trace of
fat, and 80 calories.  You can choose your Strach Exchanges from any
items on this list.  If you want to eat a Strach food that is not on
this on this list...the general rule is that:

1/2 cup of cereal, grain, or pasta is one serving. 1 ounce of a bread
product is one serving. (about 1 slice)

List 2:  Meat Exchanges.   Each serving of meat and substitutes on
this contains about 7 grams protein.  The amount of fat and number of
calories vary, depending on what kind of meat or substitute you
choose. There is 3 parts based on the amount of fat & calories.  LEAN
MEAT, MEDIUM-FAT MEAT, & HIGH-FAT MEAT.
============================================================= LEAN
MEAT CAR: 0  PROTEIN 7g FAT: 3g  CALORIES: 55 MEDIUM-FAT MEAT CAR: 0
PROTEIN 7g FAT: 5g  CALORIES: 75 HIGH-FAT MEAT: CAR: 0 PROTEIN 7g
FAT: 8g CALORIES: 100
============================================================== List
3: Vegetable Exchange: List contains about 5 grams of carbohydrate, 2
grams protein, and about 25 calories: Unless other wise noted, the
serving size for vegetables (1 Vegetable Exchange) is:

1/2 cup of cooked vegetables or vegetable juice. -=OR=- 1 cup of raw
vegetables.

List 4: Fruit Exchanges: List contains about 15 grams of
carbohydarate and about 60 calories.

1/2 cup of fresh fruit or fruit juice -=OR=- 1/4 cup of dried fruit.

List 5: Milk Exchange: Each serving of milk or milk products on this
list contains about 12 grams of carbohydrate and 8 grams of protein.
List is divided into 3 parts based on the amount of fat and calories:
skim/very low-fat milk milk, low-fat milk and whole milk.
===================================================================
Skim/very low-fat  CAR: 12g   PROTEIN: 8   FAT: TRACE  CALORIES: 90
(This is like a skim milk or any other skim/very low-fat) Low-fat
CAR: 12g PROTEIN: 8   FAT: 5 CALORIES: 120 (This is like a 2% milk)
CALORIES: 150 (This is like
Whole CAR: 12 PROTEIN: 8   FAT: 8
plain old whole milk)
======================================================================
= List 6: Fat Exchanges: Fat list contains about 5 grams of fat and 45
calories.  The foods in the fat list contain mostly fat, although
some item may also contain a small amount of protein.  All fats are
in calories and should be carefully measured. We all should eat
unsaturated fats instead of saturated fats.

Free foods: A free food is any food or drink that contains a fewer
than 20 calories per serving.  You can eat as much as you want of
those items that have no serving size specified.  You may eat two or
three servings per day of those items that have a specific serving
size. Be sure to spread them out through the day.

Source: The Art of Cooking for the Diabetic by Mary Abbott
Hess,R.D.,M.S and Katharine Middleton Brought to you and yours via
Nancy O'Brion and her Meal-Master

