Title: Peach Buttermilk Ice-Cream
Categories: Fruit, Dessert, Down under
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: AUSTRALIAN VOGUE WIN---------------------
MMMMM------------------------PEACH PUREE-----------------------------
enough fresh yellow peaches to make 2 cups puree a little water 1/4
cup sugar ice-cream base: 1 sachet gelatine 3/4 cup sugar 500 ml
buttermilk 3 egg yolks beaten 1/4 teaspoon salt 400 ml thickened
cream 1 tablespoon vanilla essence To make peach puree: place peaches
in boiling water for 1 minute. The skins should slip off easily Halve
peaches and remove stones. Poach flesh in a small amount of water
with the sugar.  Do not overcook; peaches should still have some
texture.  Puree and cool. (In winter, use a mixture of tinned
peaches: one large tin, drained and 6 dried peaches simmered in a
little water with 1/4 cup sugar. Use peaches tinned in natural juice
or water, not heavy syrup.  The addition of dried peaches gives a
more intense flavour). To make ice-cream: mix gelatine and sugar in a
heavy-based saucepan. Stir in buttermilk and simmer over low heat
until gelatine has dissolved. Add hot buttermilk mixture to beaten
egg yolks, stirring constantly. Return to low heat and stir with a
wooden spoon until mixture has thickened slightly.  Do not boil.
Blend in salt, cream and vanilla.  Chill, then fold in peach puree.
To freeze ice-cream: if you have an ice-cream maker, follow
manufacturer's instructions. If not, place mixture in a metal bowl,
freeze until a firm mush, then beat vigorously. Repeat process twice.
Large ice crystals will form, so beating is essential to get a
creamy, smooth ice-cream.  Allow ice-cream to rest in refrigerator
for 30 minutes before serving with pistachio wafers. Helen Gray.
Bon-Appetit, Exec.Chef. Magnus Johansson

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   09-28-94

