Title: The Eggplant and Its Preparation
Categories: Vegetable, Information
Yield: 1 servings
~~~~~~~~~~~~
THE EGGPLANT
MMMMM-------------------------VARIETIES------------------------------
~~~~~~~~~
CONVENTIONAL: Dark purple and globular shape, ranging in size from1-5
pounds. Easily found. ORIENTAL: Smaller and more elongated,
Japanese/Chinese eggplants usually weigh less than a pound and are a
violet hue, sometimes striated with white. They have a sweeter taste
and finer texture. They don't require salting to fry.. Found in Asian
food stores. MINIATURE: Sometimes called "Italian" or "Baby
eggplants" these are perfect for the grill and also tend to be less
bitter than the conventional variety. Found in many fresh produce
stores. WHITE: Available in globular and long, thin shapes, the tough
skin tends to require peeling. Found in specialty produce stores. PEA
EGGPLANT: These marble-sized, green and white eggplants are found at
Asian food stores. Used in Thai pickles, chili sauces and curries.
THE FAT FACTOR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * Eggplants absorb more fat than any
other vegetable. It's best to avoid dishes that call for deep-frying
or sauteing. Try baking, roasting, grilling, boiling, steaming or
stewing instead. * Or, sprinkle 1/2 teaspoon salt per pound of cut
eggplant, let stand in a colander for 30 minutes, rinse, squeeze and
pat dry. Salting reduces the amount of oil when frying and cuts down
the bitterness. BAKE OR ROAST IT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * Pierce whole
eggplant several times with a fork and bake in 400 degree oven for
30-40 minutes. Or cut in halves, crosshatch the cut sides, place
cut-side-down on a lightly oiled baking sheet and cook 20-30 minutes.
* Roasting gives eggplant a rich, meaty, smoky flavor. In the
broiler, place halves cut-side-down on a broiler pan. On the grill,
place skinside down on hot grill. Cook until the skin is blistered
and blackened. Place eggplant in a paper bag for a few minutes. The
steam will loosen the charred skin. Remove skin with oven gloves or
under cold running water. DELICIOUS IDEA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * DIPS:
Roasted or baked eggplant makes a great dip, such as baba ghanoush,
eggplant caviar, Indian dip with yogurt, etc. * SUBSTITUTES: Use it
instead of pasta in lasagna, in place of meat in a pasta sauce or as
mini-crusts for pizza. * INTERNATIONAL DISHES: Turn to Greek, Middle
Eastern, Mediterranean, Chinese and Indian dishes for a wide variety
of eggplant ideas. NUTRITION: TIP OF THE WEEK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Eggplants may rank low in vitamin and
minerals, but it's full of fibre and carbohydrates. Raw eggplant is
low-fat and low-cal. From: Foodsmarts by Madeleine Greey in the
Toronto Star Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-16-94

