Title: BO BAY MON
Categories: Vietnam, Update
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM---------------------THE DIPPING SAUCE--------------------------
1 tb Shrimp paste
Juice of 2 lemons
1 1/2 tb Sugar, granulated
1 ts Chili paste
1 ts Ginger; chopped fine
1 ts Pineapple; finely chopped
Put shrimp paste in a bowl, add lemons juice, sugar, chili paste, and
chopped ginger. Stir the sauce thoroughly to mix all the ingredients.
In the Mekong Delta they add finely chopped fresh pineapple. You have
enough dipping sauce for 4 persons. Taste it. If you find the sauce
too salty, fine tune with lemon juice and sugar. Remember, this is
usually a 4 to 6 hours meal. In a summer evening, in your back yard
with your good friends, it is very appropriate. THE VEGETABLES Use
several large plates to dispose the vegetables. They are used with
wet rice paper to make rolls with the meat and then dipped in the
sauce. The vegetables list: - salad: use the soft variety, Boston is
the best. - cucumber: slice it half-moon - bean sprouts - green
banana (optional): slice it sausage style ~ herbs: cilantro, basil,
mint. THE MEAT You need the following beef cuts: ~ beef fondue, very
thin slices - ground beef. You have to put it through the food
processor to get a mellow paste. Because it is a very long and
substantial meal I suggest you to plan a little more than 1/4 pound
of meat for every guest. On the subsequent try you can serve only the
beef cooked the way you like. HOW TO SERVE BO BAY MON Like any fondue
Bo Bay Mon is not a time consuming recipe because it is a cook-it
yourself meal. There is not a special sequence to serve the different
courses. Do it as you like, the South Vietnamese are easy going
people. Here is the usual sequence. 1st course. In a small pot put on
a heater make a mix of 1 cup of coconut vinegar (or wine vinegar) 2
cups of water and 1 tea spoon of sugar. Let it simmer on the table.
To eat the 1st course take a slice of beef fondue, dip it in the hot
liquid for a few second. Take a piece of wet rice paper, a little bit
of evry vegetables on the table, add the cooked beef, roll and then
dip it in the sauce. This procudure will be repeated for the six
following courses, the 7th is a bowl of soup (if you can go so far).
2nd course Use the ground beef. Add a little smash garlic, honey and
ginger. Roll the mixture around a small skewer like a pogo stick.
Grill them over a small charcoal fire or a small stove st on the
table. Two sticks per gust is enough. 3nd course Use the same mixture
as in the 2nd course but roll it in vine leaf. Grill the rolls. Two
rolls per guest. 4nd course Use the beef slices previously marinated
in garlic, lemon juice and black pepper. Two slices per guest. 5th
course Use the beef slices previously marinated in light soy sauce,
rice wine, garlic and black pepper. Stir fry the slices quickly in
peanut oil. 6th course A good small piece of steak previously
marinated in salt, black pepper and garlic. 1 piece per guest. 7th
course Prepare a small pot of rice soup. Add a little fish sauce, a
pinch of ginger, black pepper and scallion. One small rice bowl per
guest. THE WINE With Bo Bay Mon which is quite salty because of the
dipping sauce, I think cool beer is the best drink to go with the
meal but unless you and your guest have a high degree of self-control
you will become bloated very quickly. A not so dry white wine is a
good choice. A good bottle of cool ros√© is also welcome. Dessert is
out of question unless you have a good supply of Alka Seltzer,
Mylanta etc.. Enjoy!Subj: Bo Bay Mon

