Title: BETTY CROCKER'S COOKBOOK 6TH EDITION - INTRO
Categories: Info, Crocker
Yield: 1 Servings
See Below
For most of this century, the name signature and portrait of Betty
Crocker have been symbols of quality recipes and have won the
confidence of millions.

Betty Crocker's cookbook and recipe heritage can be traced back to the
1890s-with the purchase and distribution of Miss Parloa's New Cook
Book by the Washburn Crosby Company forerunner of General Mills.
However, it was not until 1921 that "Betty Crocker" first appeared as
the signature on letters replying to thousands of questions about
cooking and baking.

In 1936, the Betty Crocker name, by then famous, was given a face
when the√π first official portrait of Betty Crocker was commissioned.
In the years that followed, there were five other "sittings." In
1986, the seventh and most recent portrait in the series was
introduced. As the previous ones reflected changing times, the
current Betty Crocker portrait reflects the 1980s.

In 1950 cooking and baking information was in such great demand that
the need for a wide-ranging basic cookbook seemed clear. Simply
called Betty Crocker's Picture Cookbook, the volume collected under
one cover the recipes, advice and expertise accumulated over the
years. It was an instant success-the nonfiction best-seller for that
year!

Betty Crocker's Picture Cookbook was revised twice before it was
replaced in 1969 by Betty Crocker's Cookbook. This was later updated
and a new edition was published in 1978.

Now new and again revised, this is the sixth edition of the all-time
best-selling cookbook.

With its straightforward, easy-to-understand language and tested
recipes, Betty Crocker's Cookbook has introduced millions to the
heritage of American cooking. In recognition of this outstanding
contribution, Betty Crocker's Cookbook received the distinction of
becoming the sixth book to be placed in the R.T. French Cookbook Hall
of Fame.

Like its predecessors, this edition mirrors an American lifestyle and
stands ready to serve a new generation.

FOREWORD

What we eat, how we prepare it and even who prepares it-all have
changed dramatically since 1950 when the first edition of the
best-selling Betty Crocker's Cookbook appeared. Consequently, when we
planned and developed this sixth edition of Betty Crocker's Cookbook,
we did more than revise. We created a book specifically for today's
needs. And to assure success, we relied on one indispensable
ingredient-you.

We monitored your new food tastes and discovered that what was once
exotic is now mainstream. We investigated emerging trends, and looked
for new twists to add to the basics. Most importantly, we were guided
by your letters and telephone calls. The trained staff of our
Consumer Relations Department communicates with nearly 10,000 of you
each month.

Your growing awareness of the need for good nutrition became
evident-you choose poultry and fish over red meat, eat more fresh
fruits and vegetables, and use less fat in cooking. So, with the
assistance of our Nutrition Department, we have provided a calorie
count with each recipe plus special chapter-by-chapter charts with
computer-calculated nutrients.

We found all members of the family sharing the responsibility for food
preparation. Therefore our recipes are clearly written, with
easy-to-follow directions. How-to illustrations, information charts,
special tips-all help even the beginner to feel comfortable and
confident in the kitchen.

Since time saving and ease of preparation are so important to you,
there are do-ahead tips and microwave variations. Many main dish
recipes are flagged "Easy. . . " and most main dish recipes feature
menu suggestions to help take the guesswork out of go-togethers.

The Special Helps chapter is actually a mini-encyclopedia of cooking
basics and tips, food preparation terms, microwave principles, food
storage guidelines and more.

Responsive to change and true to tradition this new and revised Betty
Crocker's Cookbook contains all that you have asked for, and offers
one more advantage-the dependability you have come to expect from
recipes developed and tested in the Betty Crocker Kitchens. The Betty
Crocker Editors

Source: Betty Crockers Cookbook, 6th Edition

