Title: Chef Tell's Fast and Fabulous Hors D'oeuvres
Categories: Appetizer, Pork, Cheese/eggs, Masterchefs
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Chef Tell Erhardt frequently appears on "Live with Regis & Kathie
Lee." Although his birth name is Friedman Paul Erhardt, he gained the
nickname "Tell" because he appeared in school plays as the Swiss here
William Tell. He began his culinary career at the age of 14 and
received his first major award at the age of 27, when he won a gold
medal at the Culinary Olympics and was named Chef of the Year.  These
recipes use ingredients that are often on hand, or are left over from
meals. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% HAM ROLLS  %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Place a slice of ham on a plate and spread mustard over the ham. You
can also flavor mayonnaise with a little curry powder and use it in
place of the mustard.  Place a cooked spear of asparagus on the ham
and roll the ham around the asparagus. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%% HAM CORNETS %%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% In the container of
a food processor fitted with the metal chopping blade, process 2 cups
of cream cheese, 1/2 cup of prepared horseradish, and a dash of lemon
juice until blended. Place the mixture in a pastry bag that is fitted
with a star tip. Roll slices f ham into cone shapes and pipe the
mixture into the ham. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% SPICY HAM
SPREAD %%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% In the container of a
food processor fitted with the metal chopping baled, process 2 cups
of chopped ham, 1 tbsp of prepared horseradish, and 1/2 cup of
mayonnaise until blended. Using a rolling pin, lightly roll over
slices of fresh bread to flatten them slightly.  Spread the ham
mixture on the bread. roll the bread up and then cut each piece in
half. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% LEFTOVER CHEESE BALLS
%%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% In the container of a food
processor fitted with the metal chopping blade, process leftover
cheese pieces (any type), adding softened butter,if necessary, to
create a mixture that holds together.  Form the mixture into small
balls and roll each ball in chopped nuts or bread crumbs. Refrigerate
until ready to serve. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%%
LEFTOVER CHEESE SPREAD %%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% In
the container of a food processor fitted with the metal chopping
blade, process 1 cup of hard cheese pieces, 1/2 cup of soft cheese,
1/2 cup of butter, and 2 tbsp of brandy until blended.  Place the
mixture in a pastry bag that is fitted with a star tip.  Pipe the
mixture onto celery, split dates, crackers, or slices of miniature
bread. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% STUFFED EGGS %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% In the container of a food processor
fitted with the metal chopping blade, process together 2 oz of cream
cheese for every 4 hard cooked egg yolks until blended. Spoon the
mixture into the egg white halves and sprinkle the tops with paprika.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% STUFFED EGGS VARIATIONS
%%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% * Add 1 roasted red bell
pepper to the processor with the cream cheese and yolks and process
until smooth. Garnish each egg with a sliver of red pepper. * Add 2-3
shrimp and a dash of lemon juice to the processor with the cream
cheese and yolks and process until smooth.  Garnish each egg with a
shrimp. * Add 1/2 ripe avocado and a dash of lemon juice to the
processor with the cream cheese and yolks and process until smooth.
Garnish each egg with a sliver of avocado. * Chop 1 smal onion and
cook it in a skillet with a little butter until it is softened. Add
the cooked onion to the processor with the cream cheese and yolks and
process until smooth.  Garnish with additional cooked onion. Origin:
Cooking with Regis & Kathie Lee. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Nov/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-18-94

