Title: Classic Butter Cookies with Variations
Categories: Holiday, Cake/cookie
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-----------------------MAKES: 4 DOZEN----------------------------
2 t  Vanilla
1/4 t  Salt
4 1/2 c  Flour
1 1/2 c  Butter
1 c  Sugar
1 ea Egg
Beat butter, sugar, egg, vanilla, and salt until light and fluffy.
Gradually add flour; beat until well mixed. Cover dough; refrigerate
at least 1 hour. Working with 1/4 of dough at a time and keeping the
rest refrigerated, roll out to 1/4" thickness. Cut into desired
shapes; place on ungreased cookie sheets and bake in a 375~ oven 8-10
minutes or until lightly browned. remove to rack and cool completely.
Frost or decorate as desired. Store in airtight containers at room
temperature. Rum: Substitute rum extract for the vanilla Peppermint:
Substitue 1 teaspoon peppermint extract for the vanilla and add 3
drops green or red food coloring. Walnut: Substitue almond for the
vanilla, add 1 cup finely ground walnuts and reduce the flour to 4
cups. Spice: Omit vanilla; add 1 1/4 tsp cinnamon and 1/4 tsp ground
nutmeg. Chocolate: Beat in 4 ounces melted semisweet chocolate before
adding flour. Almond: Add 1 cup finely ground almonds, substitue
almond flavoring for the vanilla and reduce flour to 4 cups. Citrus:
Substitute 2 teaspoons grated orange or lemon peel for the vanilla.
Coffee-Vanilla: Dissole 1 tablespoon instant coffee in 1 tablespoon
vanilla and add to mixture. Cherry: Add 2 tablespoons maraschino
cherry liquid and 3 drops red food coloring. Source: Newspaper
clipping from the Dairy Council Carolyn Shaw's Collection

Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   10-31-94

