Title: Flavor Up with Butter
Categories: Information, Condiment, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 2 servings
-%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
-%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
-%%%
%%%%% PASTA & RICE TIPS
Serve cut up lasagna noodles in a broth of chicken stock and garlic
butter. To make the garlic butter soften 1/2 cup butter and mix in
1/2 tsp choppped fresh garlic. Toss cooked pasta and gree peas with
chive butter and then sprinkle with parmesan cheese. To make the
Chive butter, soften 1/2 cup butter and stir in 2 tsp of finely
snipped chives. For rice that steam up light and fluffy, add a pat of
butter to the cooking liquid before adding the rice.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% VEGETABLE TIPS %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% As a side dish with chicken, try garlic
butter mashed potatoes.  Peel, boil, and mash as usual, then swirl in
garlic butter.  For color, add a sprinkle of chopped rosemary or
basil. To turn plain vegetable or potatoes into an elegant restaurant
style dish, top them with a slice make-ahead herb butter. To make
Herb Butter Rounds, soften 1/2 cup butter and add 1 tbsp fresh
chopped herbs (eg: Parsley & Oregano or Rosemary & Cracked black
pepper, or Chili powder and Cumin) Stir gently to blend and then
scoop onto a sheet of waxed paper. Roll into a 1 inch wide 'sausage
roll' then freeze.  To use, simply slice off as much as you need,
then rewrap and store the remainder until next time. To preserve the
color and flavor of fresh vegetable, steam them.  Then, to bring out
those fresh flavors even more, top them with a pat of melting butter.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% TIPS FOR FAMILY
FAVORITES %%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% When baking,
there's no substitute for butter.  Butter gives cookie and bread
doughs flavor and texture, and it helps distribute the heat better.
Kids love asparagus! It's even more fun when you eat it with your
finges. As a dipping sauce, serve melted butter on the side. For
French Toast they'll remember, make it with thick slices of French
bread. Top with a dollop of Orange Honey Butter. To make the Orange
Honey Butter, soften 1/2 cup sweet unsalted butter and add 1/3 cup
honey and 2 tbsp undilited frozen orange juice concentrate. Beat
together until mixture is light and fluffy. Store in fridge.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% OUTDOOR COOKING TIPS %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Serve grilled or broiled seafood
with clarified butter.  This same recipe makes a delicious dipping
sauce for asparagus spears or as a sauce on broccoli. To make the
Clarified Butter, melt 1/2 cup butter over very low heat without
stirring. Cool slightly. Pour off clear top layer. Discard milky
bottom layer. Pour into small custard cups. Makes 2 servings. Serve
turkey burgers of hot dogs on garlic buns.  Spread garlic butter on
buns, then set on the grill for a few minutes.  Garlic butter can be
made ahead of time and stored in the freezer. To retain moistrue and
flavor in firm textured fish (swordfish, monkfish, tuna, etc) brush
with seasoned herb butter and then grill. For a flavorful side dish,
grill vegetables slowly on a charcoal or gas grill. Brush lightly
with plain or herb butter before turing.  Try this with eggplant,
onions, beets, squash, asparagus or any non-juicy vegetable that's in
season. Origin: Women's Day Magazine, October 1994. Shared by: Sharon
Stevens, Dec/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   12-04-94

