Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Pies, Tarts And Pastries #2
Categories: Information, Pie/tart
Yield: 1 servings  Pies and Tarts: (cont'd) ************************ Rolling Out the
Crust: ********************** The pie dough can be rolled out after
it has rested in the refrigerator for at least 20 minutes. If the
dough has been refrigerated longer, it should sit at room temperature
until it is just barely soft to the touch. Lightly flour your work
table, your hands, and your rolling pin. Gently form the dough into a
patty 3-1/2 inches in diameter by 1 inch in height. If the dough is
hard, beat it with the rolling pin a few times to soften it. Begin
each roll across the pastry 1/2 inch from the edge closest to you,
and end each roll 1/2 inch in from the edge farthest from you. Roll
the pastry out quickly and with even pressure, turning the dough so
that each roll is done at right angles to the previous roll. To do
this, roll the dough in one direction. Gently slide a long-bladed
spatula underneath the pastry to see if it is sticking to the table.
If the dough begins to stick, lightly flour underneath it. Turn the
dough 45 degrees and roll again, in one direction only. Continue
until you have rolled your pastry into a large square, 1/8 inch
thick. Use a saucepan lid or a pan to cut out a circle of dough to
fit your pie, tart or tartlet pans:

10 inches for bottom crust in double-crusted 9 inch pie pan.
*
* 11 inches for top crust in double-crusted 9 inch pie pan. * 12
inches for the fluted bottom crust in a 10 inch tart pan. * 12 inches
for the bottom crust in a 10 inch tart pan. * 5 inches for a bottom
crust in a 3 inch tart pan.

Transfer the pastry to the pie or tart pan by rolling it onto the
rolling pin and then unrolling it centered over the pan. With lightly
floured fingers, gently east the pastry into place, being especially
careful to push it into the inside corners. Depending on how the
bottom crust is to be finished, either trim the pastry with a pair of
kitchen scissors to be 1/2 inch to 3/4 inch larger than the edge of
the pie or tart pan, or use the dull side of a small knife to trim
the pastry even with the outer edge of the pan. Chill the prepared
crust for at least 15-20 minutes before filling and/or baking. The
top crust or lattice strips can be refrigerated on a flat surface
(such as a cookie sheet) and covered with plastic wrap. This chilling
period is to relax the gluten in orer to minimize shrinkage, and to
harden the butter to ensure a flaky crust.

Here are some methods for finishing single crusted pies, tarts,
tartlets, and double crusted and lattice pies.

Fluted Crust: ************* You must have a 1/2 inch to 3/4 inch edge
of pastry extending beyond the pie pan. Turn this edge of pastry
under itself to build up the edge. Flute the edge by placing the
index finger of your right hand on the inside of the ednge, and the
tips or knuckles of the index finger and middle finger of your left
hand on the outside of the edge on either side of the right finger.
Push the dough into a "U" shape and continue around the pie.
Submitted By JANE KNOX   On   11-11-94

