Title: Kosher Japanese Soup Stock (Dashi)
Categories: Soup/stew, Fish, Jewish, Japanese
Yield: 1 servings
Makes 1 Quart
If you intend to get serious about Japanese cooking, let me introduce
you to "dashi", the base used for most Japanese soups and some
seasonings. (Chicken broth flavored with ginger root is also used in
Japan, but doesn't have the smokey taste associated with dashi). Made
from dried seaweed and dried bonito flakes, dashi is sweet and smokey
but bland. Bonito, related to tuna, is a fish that can be used in the
kosher kitchen, but the packaged dried flakes are not certified
kosher, so for the one-half to three-quarter cup of bonito flakes
usually used in making dashi, the skin of smoked whitefish is used in
this recipe. For meat dishes, use a vegetarian broth with the
seaweed, and omit the whitefish skin. The seaweed sees a double use
in Japanese kitchens for after it flavors the dashi it is cut into
pieces and used as a vegetable in other dishes. 1 ea Piece Dried
Seaweed (4 X 8 inches) 4 c Cold Water x Skin of 1/2 pound smoked
whitefish; rinsed under cold water In a 2-quart pot, combine the
seaweed and the water. Cover the pot, bring the water to the boil
over high heat, remove the pot from the heat, and immediately remove
the softened seaweed. The water will now have a slightly sweet,
salty, smokey, and faint vegetable taste. Add the smoked whitefish
skin, and allow the skin to remain in the soup for 2 minutes. Remove
the whitefish skin.  Line a colander or strainer with paper towels,
set the colander or strainer over a bowl, strain the broth through
the paper towels. Refrigerate for up to 3 days. Freezing is not
recommended because the delicate taste of the stock may be lost.
From: International Cooking For The Kosher Home By: Betty S. Goldberg

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   11-13-94

