Title: Microwave Cooking Terms & Techniques
Categories: Microwave, Information
Yield: 1 servings
1 x  No Ingredients
Arranging: So that foods will cook more evenly, arrange them in round
dishes so that the thick parts are toward the outside. Covering: To
ensure that foods reach a safe temperature throughout, use a lid or
plastic wrap to cover vegetables, moist foods, and casseroles. Cover
foods to be "roasted" with wax paper. And use paper towels to absorb
moisture or preserve a dry texture. Rotating: Midway through cooking
and as needed, turn the dish, reposition dish if on a rotating
turntable, rearrange or stir foods and turn large food items over.
Standing: After cooking, allow foods to stand about one-third of the
cooking time so temperatures will be even and food will become done.
Best power levels for food: High Power (100%) - Ground meats,
chicken, turkey, seafood, bacon, fruits, vegetables, water-based
soups and casseroles,^ pasta, pie crust, reheating bread products.
Medium-high Power (70%) - Rib roast, Cornish hens, quiche, foods con-
taining cheese, cream-based soups and casseroles, cheesecake, bar
cookies, reheating leftovers. Medium Power (50%) - Ham, pork strips
and cubes, spareribs, stew, eye round roast, eggs, custards,
softening cream cheese, melting chocolate. Medium-low Power (30%) -
Beef pot roasts, pork roasts and chops, lamb, simmering foods, rice,
cereal, defrosting. Low Power (10%) - Defrosting large roasts or
turkeys, keeping foods warm, proofing yeast dough. Set the oven for
the minimum length of time called for in the recipe. Check for
doneness and add time if needed. From "Microwave by Ann Steiner &
Cici Williamson" in Ft. Worth Star- Telegram, Jan. 8, 1992. Posted
by: Sheila Exner - Jan. 1992

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   12-11-94

