Title: Poe (Tahitian)
Categories: Dessert, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
No Ingredients Found
..................................................................

Both POE and POI refer to the pounding of fruits or roots into a
pulp. But unlike Hawaiian poi, this Tahtian "poe" is a sweet tasty
baked tropical fruit dish, served chilled and topped with coconut
cream. Don't taste too much of it before you bake it, for like some
cake batters it is delicious uncooked and may not make it to the oven.
..................................................................
INGREDIENTS: ~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 tb Butter; unsalted <OR> margarine;
softened 1 ea Pineapple (4 lbs); ripe 1-2 ea Papayas (2 lbs. total);
ripe 1-2 ea Mangos (2 lbs. total); ripe 1 1/2 lb Bananas; ripe 1/2 c
Cornstarch <OR> Arrowroot; unsifted 1/2 c Pineapple Juice <OPTIONAL>
1/2 c Sugar; light or dark brown; firmly packed 2 ts Vanilla Extract
1 c Coconut Cream (see previous recipe) <OR> 1 c Whipped Coconut
Cream (see below) Generously butter a 9 X 13-inch baking dish.
Preheat the oven to 375F. Quarter the pineapple, slice off and
discard the core, remove the fruit from the shell, and chop the
pineapple fine. Peel the papayas, cut in half, remove and discard the
seeds, and chop the fruit fine. Peel the mangos, cut the fruit away
from the pit, and chop the mangos fine. Peel and mash the bananas.
Puree the fruit in a food mill, blender, or food processor, or use
the coarse blade of a grinder. Because the fruit is usually pounded
by hand, not processed in a machine, the texture need not be too
smooth. Mix the fruit together and place in a strainer over a bowl.
Mix the liquid that drains into the bowl with cornstarch or
arrowroot, making sure the mixture is very smooth. Or, if you're
short on time, mix 1/2 cup pineapple juice with the cornstarch or
arrowroot and do not drain the fruit. In a large mixing bowl, using a
large kitchen spoon, combine the fruit puree, cornstarch or arrowroot
mixture, sugar, and vanilla extract. Spread evenly in the prepared
baking dish, and bake for 1 hour, until golden brown. Cool, then
cover and refrigerate until well chilled. Serve with coconut cream,
plain, whipped. passed around separately. SERVES 8 to 10 WHIPPED
COCONUT CREAM ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Can coconut cream be whipped?
Partially freeze the cream, use a chilled bowl and beaters, and make
an all-natural nondairy whipped cream that has the consistency of
real whipped cream with a coconut taste. Because the coconut cream is
already sweet, it is not even necessary to add sugar. 1/2 c Coconut
Cream (see previous recipe) Chill a small metal mixing bowl and the
beaters from an electric mixer in the freezer for 15 minutes. Now add
the coconut cream to the chilled bowl and replace the bowl in the
freezer for about 30 mintes, until the coconut cream just begins to
freeze. With the electric mixer at high speed, immediately whip the
cream. Watch the cream carefully as it begins to thicken or it may
curdle. Turn off the mixer when the coconut cream is stiff enoough to
hold peaks when the beater are lifted. The whipped coconut cream is
ready to serve. Or refrigerate, covered, for up to 4 days; the cream
does not separate the way regular whipped cream does, nor does it
spoil as rapidly. MAKES ABOUT 1 Cup. From: International Cooking For
the Kosher Home By: Betty S. Goldberg Posted By: S.L.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   11-16-94

