Title: Quick Tips
Categories: Information
Grating Citrus Peel
Yield: 1 info

When grating citrus peel, tiny pits of peel often stick to the areas
of the grater between the holes. Rather than wasting this peel, you
can quickly and easily brush it off onto waxed paper, using a clean
toothbrush kept especially for this purpose.

Melting Chocolate

1. Line a metal bowl with a heating pad. Place a second metal bowl on
top of the pad and put chocolate to be melted into this bowl. Turn on
the heating pad.

2. To melt chocolate quickly, cover the top bowl with plastic wrap,
lifting the wrap occasionally to stir the chocolate smooth.

Quick Decorating Tube

1. Put chocolate in a heat-safe zip-lock bag and immerse in simmering
water until the chocolate melts. Snip off just the very tip of one
corner of the bag.

2. Holding the bag in one hand, gently squeeze the chocolate out of
the bag. Discard the bag when finished.

Avoiding Splatters

1. Put the mixer (without beaters) down on the convex side of a paper
plate and mark spots where the hole for the beaters hits the plate.
Punch holes through the plate at those two spots, then insert the
beaters through the holes and into the mixer.

2. Proceed to mix, keeping the surface of the plate approximately
even with the top of the bowl. Any food that is kicked up by the
beaters will splatter onto the paper plate.

Torting a Cake

1. Place several toothpicks around the edge of the cake halfway
between the top and bottom. Use a ruler to determine the midpoint,
thus ensuring even layers.

2. Wrap a long piece of waxed dental floss around the circumference
of the cake making sure that the floss rests directly on top of the
toothpicks.

3. Once floss has cut through the cake, lift top layer and set aside.
Remove toothpicks from the bottom layer and proceed with filling and
decorating the cake.

Cook's Illustrated
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-23-94

