Title: Salad Dressings
Categories: Salad, Dressing, Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Enhance main-course and side dish salads alike with your own homemade
dressings++fresh tasting, free of artificial ingredients,

and simple enough to prepare in minutes.  Leftover dressing can be
refrigerated and used the next time you serve salad. The dressings
below are good on a variety of salads.  Keep in mind, though, that
thick dressings such as Creamy Mustard Dressing, Or Chili Spiced
Thousand Island Dressing are more appropriate for crunchier greens,
while the lighter choices go well with delicate, leafy greens. And
remember that dressings made with oil and refrigerated should be
brought to room temperature, then stirred to blend, before being
added to a salad. BASIC VINAIGRETTE: Preparation Time: 2 To 3 Minutes
In a jar, combine 1/2 cup white wine vinegar, 3/4 tsp salt, a dash of
pepper, and 1 1/2 cups salad or olive oil, (or a combination of the
two). Close the jar tightly and shake until well blended. Makes about
2 cups of dressing Per Tablespoon: 91 Calories, 0 Grams Protein, 0.1
Grams Carbohydrates, 10 Grams Total Fat, 0 Mg. Cholesterol, 51 Mg.
Sodium CREAMY MUSTARD DRESSING: In a bowl, stir together 1 3/4 cup
commercial mayonnaise, 2 tbls red wine vinegar, 2 tbls Dijon mustard,
and 1 tsp dry tarragon.  Blend until the dressing is thoroughly
mixed. Makes About 2 Cups Per Tablespoon: 88 Calories, 0.1 Grams
Protein, .05 Grams Carbohydrates, 10 Grams Total Fat, 7 Mg
Cholesterol, 97 Grams Sodium HONEY-YOGURT DRESSING: Stir together 1
1/2 tbls grated orange peel, 1 tsp minced fresh ginger, 1 cup plain
lowfat yogurt, 2 tbls honey, and 1 tbls lemon juice until smooth.
Stir in 2 tsp poppy seeds, if desired. If made ahead, cover and
refrigerate for up to 1 week. Makes about 1 1/4 cups. Per Tablespoon:
14 Calories, 0.6 Grams Protein, 3 Grams Carbohydrates, 0.2 Grams
Total Fat, 0.7 Mg. Cholesterol, 8 Mg. Sodium From Sunset's Quick And
Easy Cookbook  Copyright 1991

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-27-94

