Title: Stuffed Wild Mushrooms with Lemon, Bay and Dandelion Peta
Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
Yield: 4 servings
No Ingredients Found
Source: The National Culinary Review, June'94 Stuffed wild mushrooms
with lemon, bay and dandelion petals. Use large, flat wild mushrooms.
Serve with garlic bread and, for a lunch or supper dish, a leafy
green salad. From Cooking with Flowers. 4 large or 8 medium flat wild
mushrooms 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 small onion, finely chopped 1
garlic clove, crushed 4 tablespoons fresh breadcrumbs 1 to 2
tablespoons chopped parsley Twists of lemon peel Fresh bay leaves
Young dandelion leaves Sea salt and black pepper Fresh dandelion
petals, for garnish

Method: Remove the mushroom stalks, chop and reserve.  Wipe the caps
clean with a paper towel.  Heat half the oil in a frying pan, put in
the onion, garlic, breadcrumbs and parsley, and fry gently for 2 to 3
minutes, until the onion is soft. Carefully scoop out some of the
mushroom flesh from the caps, using a small spoon, taking care not to
damage the outer shell, and add it to the pan, together with the
chopped stalks. Cook, stirring for 1 to 2 minutes.  Stuff the
mushrooms with the mixture.  Add the remaining oil to the pan, put in
the stuffed mushrooms, and fry gently for 3 to 4 minutes. Arrange the
lemon twists, bay leaves and dandelion leaves on a warmed dish and
lay the mushrooms on top.  Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste and
garnish with dandelion petals.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   10-23-94

