Title: Whole Seed Spices Makes Food Zestier, Part 1
Categories: Herbs/spice, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------KEYWORDS: CELERY, CORIANDER,---------------------
Color, crunch, aroma and flavor.  These are all good reasons to use
spices in their whole seed form.  Anise, caraway, celery, coriander,
cumin, dill and fennel - all can be purchased as whole seeds.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%%  ANISE SEED  %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% These small, comma shaped grayish seeds
impart a licorice flaovr to such popular foods as cookies, cakes,
candies, applesauce, fruit pies, fruit salads, stewed fruit and other
sweet foods.  On the savory side, aniseseed is often paired with
breads, cheese, pickles, beef stew, salad dressing, sauces, fish and
shellfish. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% CARAWAY SEED %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% These are the dark and crunchy bits in
your rye bread.  They have a sweet, slightly biting flavor and spicy
aroma. German, Hungarian, and Austrian cuisines are know for adding
caraway to pork stews, chips, roast goose, meat marinades, sauerkraut
and cabbage soups. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% CARDAMOM SEED
%%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Nestled in a pea sized pod,
cardomom seeds have a lemony flavor with an undertone of ginger.
Cardomom flavors Indian curries, Scandinavian glogg, Danish pastries,
meat marinades and pickling mixtures.  Try it with sweet potates,
squash and fruit dishes. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% CELERY SEED
%%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% One of the smallest spice seeds, it
takes about 750,000 of these oval, light brown seeds to make one
pound.  Celery seed has a lightly bitter celery taste and aroma and
is popular in soups, salad dressings, pickles, sausages and
sauerkraut.  Sprinkle it on tomoat juice, oysters, clams and fish for
a flavor accent. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% CORIANDER SEED
%%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% These round, yellowish tan to
brown seeds have a flavor described as either citrusy or musty, like
lemon and sage with a sweet note. Coriander seed may be used in
pickling or it may be ground for use in curries, stir fries and other
spicy dishes. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% CUMIN SEED %%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Demand for the strongly aromatic,
pleasanatly bitter and earthy cumin seed has soard in recent years,
along with our zeal for chili and Mexican cuisine.  It's an essential
ingredient in chili powder and curry powder, second only to chili
peppers in flavoring Latin American foods. It's also popular in
Middle Eastern dishes.  Like caraway, cumin can be stirred into soft
cheese, rice and stews.  It's also good in stuffing, sauces,
marinades, some breads and sweet baked goods. Origin: Michigan
Newspaper, Food Section, September 12, 1994. Shared by: Sharon
Stevens, Oct/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-02-94

