Title: SUITABLE CONTAINERS~ COVERS~ & WEIGHTS FOR
Categories: Canning, Pickles, Preserves
Yield: 1 Text  A 1-gallon container is needed for each 5 pounds of fresh vegetables.
Therefore, a 5-gallon stone crock is of ideal size for fermenting
about 25 pounds of fresh cabbage or cucumbers. Food-grade plastic and
glass containers are excellent substitutes for stone crocks. Other 1-
to 3-gallon non-food-grade plastic containers may be used if lined
inside with a clean food-grade plastic bag. Caution: Be certain that
foods contact only food-grade plastics. Do not use garbage bags or
trash liners. Fermenting sauerkraut in quart and half-gallon Mason
jars is an acceptable practice, but may result in more spoilage
losses.

Cabbage and cucumbers must be kept 1 to 2 inches under brine while
fermenting. After adding prepared vegetables and brine, insert a
suitably sized dinner plate or glass pie plate inside the
fermentation container. The plate must be slightly smaller than the
container opening, yet large enough to cover most of the shredded
cabbage or cucumbers. To keep the plate under the brine, weight it
down with 2 to 3 sealed quart jars filled with water. Covering the
container opening with a clean, heavy bath towel helps to prevent
contamination from insects and molds while the vegetables are
fermenting. Fine quality fermented vegetables are also obtained when
the plate is weighted down with a very large clean, plastic bag
filled with 3 quarts of water containing 4-1/2 tablespoons of salt.
Be sure to seal the plastic bag. Freezer bags sold for packaging
turkeys are suitable for use with 5-gallon containers.

The fermentation container, plate, and jars must be washed in hot
sudsy water, and rinsed well with very hot water before use.

======================================================= ===

* USDA Agriculture Information Bulletin No. 539 (rev. 1994) *
Meal-Master format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

