Title: TABLE DECORATING IDEAS 2
Categories: Misc
Yield: 1 Servings  NEW YEAR'S Tablecloth: Shiny black fabric /or Silver mylar covered
with shredded foil /or children's stars, sparkle confetti Napkins:
Black Dinnerware: Black, with crystal serving pieces/Crystal
Flatware: Silver Centrepieces: goblets filled crystal marbles and
white votive candles clocks bunches of red grapes dipped in wine and
dusted with -powdered sugar

TROPICAL (for midwinter) Tablecloth: Peach Napkins: Peach Dinnerware:
White /or Green /or Blue Flatware: gold Centrepiece: potted ferns
scatter shells or gold chocolate coins on tablecloth child's bucket
and pail

FIESTA Tablecloth: brightly coloured drapery fabric Dinnerware: Heavy
beige ironstone/ Orange Napkins: Orange/ bright blue with straw
napkin rings Flatware: gold Centrepiece: rattan tray filled with
rocks & tiny clay pots of cactus Bird of Paradise flowers

VALENTINE'S DAY Tablecloth: Red & white strips/ or Red, covered with
white eyelet Dinnerware: Red /or White / can use pink serving pieces
Napkins: Red / or White / or Red & white striped Flatware: Silver
Centrepiece: White cupids White dish filled with red cinnamon hearts
/or chocolate -hearts Heart shaped boxes scatter red construction
hearts on tablecloth

This table can be used for Canada Day (without the hearts) with the
addition of mini Canadian flags stuck in a vase for a centrepiece

For July 4th, Independence Day, Add blue in the tablecloth and or
serving pieces add mini American flags, a blue bowl of strawberries
sprinkled with powdered sugar

For either an old quilt (covered with protective plastic) can be used
as a tablecloth

EASTER/SPRINGTIME Tablecloth: Pink /or Yellow / or flowered bed sheet
/or Eyelet lace over pastel coloured tablecloth Napkins: Pink / or
Cream /flowered print/ flowered handkerchiefs / use Napkin rings with
flowers Dinnerware: Pink/ or Green/ or Flower patterned Flatware:
Gold Centrepiece: Bowl or basket filled with jellybeans or dyed
Easter eggs or foil covered eggs Bunny or goose figurines set in
green "grass" vase or pitcher of Daffodils or Forsythia clay pots
filled with flowering plants or herbs a woman's straw hat, decorated
with fresh flowers for Mother's Day a box filled with old cards,
white gloves, a string of pearls, set on a silk scarf brass
candlesticks with pastel coloured tapers

SPRING 2 Tablecloth & Napkins: pale lavender /or Pink Dinnerware:
Purple /or Black Flatware
: Gold Centrepiece: Violets /or Pink roses in black vase

