Title: CHOCOLATE PASTA
Categories: Desserts, Pasta, Chocolate
Yield: 8 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------PASTA--------------------------------
1 3/4 c  Flour
1/4 c  Cocoa powder
2    Egg
4 tb ;water
MMMMM-------------------CHAMPAGNE CREAM SAUCE------------------------
6    Egg yolk
1 c  Sugar
1 1/2 c  Champagne
Mix flour and cocoa well.  Mound on your work surface or in a large
bowl. Make a deep well in the center of the mound and break the eggs
into it. Beat the eggs in there with a fork, adding about 2 Tbsp
water. Using a circular motion, draw the flour and cocoa into the
center. Toss in another Tbsp of Water.  Stir with your fork until all
the flour is moistened. Add a little more water as needed. You're
gonna have to finish mixing by hand. Pat the dough into a ball. Clean
off your work surface, and flour it. Knead the dough for about 10
minutes, or until the dough becomes silky and elastic. Cover the
dough and let it rest for half an hour so the gluten can activate in
the flour.  Roll out 1/4 of the dough at a time, the same way you
would any pasta. A machine makes this really easy. I prefer to let
the pasta dry (at least a little!) before cooking. This will make 4
to 5 cups of cooked pasta---plenty for dessert. Serve in wine glasses
with a warm raspberry sauce and chilled whipped cream. Combine yolks
and sugar over a double-boiler.  Whisk constantly for about 10
minutes, until the mixture begins to thicken.  Before it turns to a
thick custard, pour in the room-temperature champagne all at once. As
it foams up, whisk lightly, and continue to stir as it thickens.
Remove from heat. Serve warm over chilled berries, or over
Cinnamon-nutmeg pasta & top with berries. Variation: Use 2 cups
flour, omit the cocoa. Instead, add 1 tsp each cinnamon and
freshly-ground nutmeg.  I served this one with a Champagne Cream
sauce and fresh raspberries and blueberries.

