Title: Festive Fruits Quick with Fresh, Canned, or Frozen Fruits
Categories: Fruits
Yield: 4 servings
-whipped cream, marshmallow
4    Applesauce Creams. Heat
-applesauce. Top with
(If canned, chill quickly in freezing tray

Frosties. Slice block of frozen raspberries, peaches, or strawberries 1/2"
thick. Top each serving with sprinkling of nuts, whipped cream, or sour
cream.

Cheese Bowls. Top bowlful of cottage cheese with cherries, peach slices,
berries, or applesauce.

Banana Treats. Split each peeled banana lengthwise; top with pineapple
chunks, crushed pineapple, or whole or sliced strawberries. Pass spiced,
whipped cream.

Peach-Crumb Dessert. Drain 1 No. 2 1/2 can cling-peach halves. Spoon halves
into dessert dishes. In saucepan, melt 1 tablesp. butter or margarine, stir
in 1/2 teasp. cinnamon and 1 cup soft day-old-bread crumbs; toss until
golden. Add 2 teasp. brown sugar; toss well. Spoon hot crumbs into peach
halves; serve immediately, with whipped cream. Makes 4 servings.

Polka Dot. In sherbet glasses, place, in layers, jellied-cranberry-sauce
cubes, pineapple chunks, and walnuts.

Bowl Compote. Combine 1 or more 8-oz. (buffet) cans apricots, pears, Bing
cherries; add few raisins.

Some-Like-It-Hot Fruit

CANNED FRUITS--SIMMERED, SAUTEED, OR BROILED

Peach-Marlow. Fill peach halves with crushed pineapple; top with
marshmallows. Broil. Serve hot.

Broiled-Fruit Medley. Sprinkle pineapple slices and peach halves with brown
sugar, dot with butter or margaripe. Broil. Serve hot, with whipped cream.

cream, or ice cream; then sprinkle with a spice. Or stir in snipped
marshmallows.

Spiced-Fruit Compote. Drain syrup from 1 No. 303 can apricots or peaches
and 1 No. 2 can sour cherries. To syrups, add 1 stick cinnamon, 6 whole
cloves. Cook 5 min. Pour over fruit. Serve warm or cold.

Dried-Fruit Supreme. Heat cooked, mixed, dried fruits; add rum extract.
Serve hot, with whipped cream.

Spiced Apricots. Drain syrup from apricots; add lemon peel, 6 whole cloves.
Heat. Pour over fruit.

Marmalade Fruits. Drain syrup from peaches, pears, or pineapple chunks or
tidbits; add spoonful orange marmalade. Heat. Pour over fruit. Serve hot or
cold.

Nutted Apple. Heat canned apple slices. Sprinkle with salted peanuts. Serve
hot, with cream.

Baked Apples. Top canned baked apples with heated mincemeat. Or top with
marshmallows; broil.

Frozen-Fruit Sautes. Saute canned peach halves or pineapple slices in
butter or margarine. Top with ice cream; then pour on some syrup from
fruit, with mint, sherry, or rum extract added.

Compote de Luxe. Heat together 2 or 3 8-oz. (buffet) cans of different
fruits. Flavor with lemon juice, vanilla extract, nutmeg. Serve hot, topped
with sour cream and grated chocolate or shaved nuts.

