Title: JESSICA'S FAVORITE MUFFINS
Categories: Digest, July, Ovo lacto
Yield: 1 Servings
2 1/4 c  Oat-bran
1 tb Baking powder
1/4 c  Honey
1 c  Blueberries
2    Bananas
1 1/4 c  Skim milk
2    Egg whites
2 tb Corn syrup
Preheat oven to 425 F.  Mix the dry ingredients in a large bowl. The
blueberries too, it keeps them from staining the ingredients. Mash the
bananas in a separate bowl and mix the milk, egg whites, honey, and
corn syrup together, then blend with the dry ingredients. Line muffin
pans with paper baking cups, and fill with batter. Bake about 15
minutes. Makes 12 muffins.

***HINTS***  I found that if you try to eat these straight from the
oven they tend to stick to the paper. They keep great for a week
though in the frig without sticking. If you eat 3 of these a day, it
is suppose to be a sufficient amount of oatbran to significantly
lower your cholesterol. So far, I haven't seen much of a difference
in my own, but that is just me and I am still trying.  Also, if you
use a 1/4 cup measure to scoop out the batter, it pretty much evenly
distributes the batter amoung the 12 cups.

***Variations****  I have tried the following substitutions in many
combinations and these are still good. raisens instead of blueberries
or no fruit at all, 1/4 c brown sugar instead of 1/4 c honey, no
bananas, one banana, 2 Tbsp of canola for 2 Tbsp of corn syrup
although I wouldn't recommend this for obvious reasons. Also, you
could try 2 cups of oatbran and 1/2 cup apple fiber.  I have not
tried this yet, but will the next time I make muffins.  I FINALLY
found apple fiber (no, not apple pectin) yesterday at a hfs thanks to
my friend Jen who happens to be on this list!! Apple fiber is an even
better fiber than oatbran, and therefore even better for lowering LDL
and raising HDL!

I hope you enjoy these!

From:    Jessica Shawl - MPG <jshawl@pcocd2.intel.com> Fatfree Digest
[Volume 9 Issue 11] July 2, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV

