Title: JUDICIAL MISCONDUCT CHILI 2 OF 2 - SOUTHEREN
Categories: Ethnic, Chili, Beef
Yield: 6 Servings
Continued
In the meantime, heat 2 T of oil in a large, heavy skillet. Add
garlic, onions, bell peppers, and celery. Cook until the onions are
clear. Remove and reserve. Mix ground meats. Add 1 T. oil to skillet
and saute meat, cooking on high heat until thoroughly browned. Drain
fat. Remove ground meat and reserve. Brown cubed meat, drain, and
reserve. Place reserved vegetables and meats in chili pot along with
linguica (or Andouille). Add all remaining vegetables, spices and
liquids (except the beer, Masa Harina, or beans), a little at a time,
stirring and mixing thoroughly between additions. Carefully bring
temperature up to a simmer. Cook covered on very low heat
approximately 5 hours. Adjust the consistency after 3 hours. If too
thin, uncover and reduce by turning up heat (carefully) slightly. If
it is still not the desired consistency, add masa harina (or flour) to
thicken, beer to thin, as needed. Taste and adjust for spices
carefully (the flavor will develop as the chili cooks). It should be
hot enough to be memorable, but not so hot it takes the skin off the
roof of your mouth. It's better to sneak up on hot. You can't take it
out. If it cries out to be hotter, add just enough Louisiana hot
sauce. Finally, and only if you absolutely must, add the beans. A
chili purist would jettison them without a second thought. If you
can't bring yourself to do it, but want to serve the chili beanless
as God intended, serve the beans on the side and let people indulge
their own leguminous perversions. Serve topped with chopped Walla
Walla sweets, shredded Monterey Jack cheese, and a pinch of parsley.

