Title: JUGGED HARE
Categories: Meats, Main dish
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Hare
1    Carrot
1    Onion
4    Cloves
1 1/2 lb Bones
4 pt Water, Cold
1    Wine glass Port Wine
Salt
Pepper
Mace, small amount
Mixed Herbs
Fat for frying
1. Remove the inside from the hare, being careful to save the thick
blood. 2. Skin the hare, wipe it, and cut into joints. Wash the head,
heart, and liver in some cold salted water, put in the a saucepan
with the blood and the bones, which have also been washed. 3. Add
four pints of cold water and a teaspoon of salt, and bring the stock
to a boil. Remove the scum, add the herbs tied in a piece of muslin,
add also the pepper and mace. 4. Scrape and wash the carrot, peel the
onion, and stick the cloves into it, and add these to the stock,
simmer all the ingredient for three or four hours; keep well skimmed
to remove the grease. 5. Flour the joints of hare, melt some butter
or shortening in a pan, and fry the joints lightly so as to brown
them slightly. Then place in a large brown jar or casserole. Mix some
flour to a smooth paste with water. When the stock is ready three to
four hours, strain it into another saucepan and add the thickening
flour mixed with water, stir well and boil for a few minutes. If
necessary add a few drops of browning. 6. Strain the gravy over the
fried hare, the hair should be just covered. Place in a moderately
hot oven, and cook for about two hours. Just before serving, add to
it the port wine. 7. To serve. Heap the hare into a large dish, pour
some of the gravy round, the remainder is served separately. Serve
with red current jelly. NOTE the gravy should be quite thick.

