Title: IDEAS FOR USING COTTAGE CHEESE
Categories: Info
E  *****
Yield: 1 Servings

These are some cool ideas for using cottage cheese I found ages ago
in a magazine.

Pasta Alfredo:  Blend until smooth:  one part skim milk to four parts
cottage cheese, some grated Parmesan, a little fresh dill, nutmeg and
black pepper.  Toss with hot whole-wheat pasta.

Salad dressing:  2 tablespoons cottage cheese, 2 teaspoons oil, 2
teaspoons apple-cider vinegar, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 1/4 teaspoon
oregano, a dash of garlic powder.

Whipped-Cream substitute:  Whip at high speed 1 cup cottage cheese
with 2 tablespoons any kind of unsweetened frozen fruit-juice
concentrate until peaks form. Serve immediately. (My favourites are
pineapple or lemon concentrate.  )

Sour cream taste-alike:  In blender, process 1/2 cup buttermilk,
yogurt or skim milk with 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice. Gradually
blend in 1 cup cottage cheese until consistency is right. (I find the
yogurt works best for this.  )

Low-calorie cream:  Blend together equal parts low-fat cottage cheese
and vanilla yogurt.  Even lower in calories: Use plain yogurt,
vanilla extract, and Sweet `N Low (or equivalent). Refrigerate at
least 8 hours before using.  Serve over fruit.

Imitation cream cheese:  Blend 1 cup low-fat cottage cheese and 1/4
cup plain yogurt; add a teaspoon or more of skim milk, as needed, for
cream-cheese consistency.

I keep mucking around with amounts and seasonings and have ended up
with some really strange-looking concoctions. If anyone has any other
suggestions or methods, please share!

: Lee Krone <LKRONE@MCCARTHY.  CA>
Recipe By

