Title: INFUSED OILS POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS 1/2
Categories: Info/tips, Vegetables
Yield: 1 Informed
F D A
Garlic
Oil, Infused
Homemade
Experts don't agree on whether you need to refrigerate oil infused
with herbs or other foodstuffs. If you listed to the federal and state
governments you'd refrigerate everything you plan to eat, but some
food scientists disagree. George York, extension food microbiologist
emeritus in the University of California, Davis food science and
technology department says micro-organisms -- including those that
cause botulism -- don't grow in oil. He says that if you are using
dried herbs "you have no problem" not refrigerating an infused oil.
If you use fresh herbs, the only bacteria that might grow would be
harmless lactic acid bacteria. Even garlic bulbs won't cause a
problem, he says. York says that if you're still worried, drop the
garlic bulb in vinegar or lemon juice overnight before putting it in
oil. Likewise, you can rehydrate dried ingredients in water spiked
with vinegar. You can not preserve food in oil he says, but oil that
has, for example, a few mushrooms, garlic, peppers or whatever added
to it doesn't require refrigeration. That said, other food safety
experts insist that chopped garlic in oil must be refrigerated to
prevent dangerous organisms from growing. And recently, producers of
minced or crushed garlic in jars were forced to add citric acid to
their product as a preservative.

