Title: Bowties (Chrusti) (Patty Smith), part 1
Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Sugar
1    Egg
1 ts Vanilla
1 c  Buttermilk
3 1/4 c  Flour
2 1/2 ts Baking powder
1 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Butter
Kringla (Carla Christeson)

This is a recipe from my mother-in-law, who claims it came with her
ancestors all the way from Norway.  She usually leaves out the baking
soda as she cannot stand the taste of it in anything she eats (but
how she can tell is beyond me).

Stir together the flour, baking powder, soda and salt.  Set aside.
Cream together butter and sugar in bowl until light and fluffy, using
mixer at medium speed.  Add egg and vanilla.  Beat well. Add dry
ingredients alternately with buttermilk.  Beating well after each
addition, using mixer on low speed.  Cover and CHILL SEVERAL HOURS OR
OVERNIGHT.

Scoop out a spoonful of dough and roll it between your floured hands
(make a rope as thin as you like).  Twist it into a figure 8 and lay
on foil covered cookie sheet.  Bake at 350 for 12 minutes or until
golden brown.

****************************************************************

Your cookie request brought back memories for me.  My mother's
parents came from the Ukraine and the cookie you described is one I
remember eating all the time while I was growing up.  They were
called Chrusti by the older folks, my Mom called them Bowties and
I've seen them called Love Knots. Oddly enough, I just asked my Mom
for this very recipe the last time I visited her.  She said that she
thought it was a Polish cookie.

3 c flour 1/4 c sugar 1/8 tsp salt 1/4 c shortening 3 eggs 1 tsp
vanilla 1/2 c milk

Sift the flour, sugar and salt together.  Cut in shortening.  Add
vanilla to the eggs and beat until light and creamy.  Add the milk;
mix until well blended.  Gradually add in the flour mixture to make a
soft dough. Chill thoroughly (about 1 hour).

Divide dough into thirds.  Roll each third about 1/8 inch thick; cut
into strips 1 1/2 inches wide and 4 inches long, cutting them
diagonally. Make slash 1 inch long in center of each strip. Lift and
carefully slip one end through the slit.  This forms the bowtie.

Fry in 375 degree deep fat for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes or until golden
brown; frying only a few at a time.  Drain on paper towel. Sprinkle
with powdered sugar while still warm.  Cool and store in tightly
covered container.

3 to 5 dozen depending on thickness of bowtie

