Title: Low Fat Ideas
Categories: Low cal/fat
Yield: 1 servings
1    Information
ADAPT YOUR OWN RECIPE REDUCE CHOLESTEROL ~ Use vegetable oil or
margarine instead of butter ~ Substitute 2 egg whites for 1 egg, or
use egg substitute ~ Use more vegetables and grains and less meat in
recipe ~ Use soy-based product to replace part of meat eg. tofu ~ Use
nonfat milk products instead of whole milk

REDUCE FAT CONTENT ~ Use reduced calorie mayonnaise and salad
dressing ~ Blend cottage cheese or yogurt with milk for sour cream
topping ~ Replace regular whipping cream with low-cal topping or
yogurt ~ Remove visible fat from meat and skin from poultry before
cooking ~ Decrease oil in marinades and salad dressing; increase
vinegar, water and sea ~ Use foods canned in their own juice or water
~ De-fat meat drippings by refrigerating and skimming fat off the top
~ Decrease the amount of fat used in baked goods by 1/3 to 1/2 and
increase flu ~ Cheese that is finely grated or thinly sliced goes
further ~ Pour some of the fat off the top of "natural" peanut butters

REDUCE SODIUM CONTENT ~ Use low-salt or no-salt-added products ~
Increase your use of herbs and spices in place of salt in recipes ~
Use fresh foods whenever possible in place of canned or processed
(soup mixes ~ Do not add salt to water when cooking pasta or other
foods

REDUCE SUGAR CONTENT ~ Decrease the amount of sugar called for in
traditional recipes by at least 1/ ~ Use fruit canned in water or
fruit juice ~ Use non caloric sweeteners if needed to increase the
sweetness of a recipe wi

Adapted from Univ. of Calif. San Diego Healthy Diet For Diabetics c.
1990.

The ADA cookbooks answer a lot of the questions that you have. Latest

