Title: Make Cooking a Pleasure
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
Don't forget++
That it is really pleasant to cook if you have pleasant surrounding.
That any help, even that of small fingers, is help and can be turned
to good account.  The light and sunshine in the kitchen not only make
the work seem pleasanter, but add apprediable to the efficiency of
the worker; That plenty of utensils in good condition add to the
pleasure of cooking and minimize chances of failure.  That you can't
make bricks without straw, nor custard without eggs, though you can
make palatable dishes our of cheap materials, if they are carefully
prepared and cooked. That you need patiences if you want to be a good
cook.  That absolute cleanliness is essential to good cooking++goo in
the sense that it is wholesome and health producing as well as
essential to bringing out to their fullest, the best flavor of the
foods used.  That with the up to date cook, it is possible for anyone
with any sort of cooking ability to make practically any sort of dish
~ and to make it good the first time. You have no right to expect
failure the first time you try a new dish; That cooking is a task
that requires close attention and that it is folly to try to bake a
cake or roast a chicken while you have absorbing duties in some other
part of the house.  Good cooks are usually watchful cooks. Origin:
The Vancouver Sun Paper, Friday, September 27, 1929. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, April/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   05-16-95

