Title: FRIENDSHIP CAKE PART 2 OF 2
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 1 Servings
See dir page
Day 1.  Pour starter into glass gallon jar.  Add can of sliced
peaches with the juice; cut each slice into 4 pieces. Add 2 1/2 cups
sugar. Stir. Cover jar loosely and keep at room temperature. Stir
every day for 10 days. All the sugar may not dissolve for several
days. Don't cover airtight. Day 10. Add can of pineapple tidbits with
juice and 2 1/2 cups sugar. Stir. Continue as before, stirring every
day for 10 more days. Your starter has changed color and your fruit
will foam when stirred. Day 20. Add 3 6-oz jars of maraschino
cherries, drained. Cut each cherry in half. Add 2 1/2 cups sugar.
Stir.  Continue stirring daily for 10 days. These are the last ten
days.  The cherries will give the juice its pinkish color back. Day
31. You will now bake your cakes.  Preheat oven to 300~. Grease and
flour your pans.  Drain fruit into a large bowl. Pour juice into 3
pint jars. Into a large bowl put 1 box cake mix, 1 box instant
vanilla pudding mix, 4 eggs, 2/3 cup oil and 1/2 the drained fruit.
Mix with a spoon only until well mixed. Then stir in 1 cup each of
raisins, walnuts, pecans and coconut. Pour into prepared pans. Bake
until straw inserted in center comes out clean. Makes 2 tube pans or
12 one pound loaves or 4 loaves, 9 1/2x5 1/2x3-inch. Bake one tube
pan at a time for approximately 60-90 minutes. Bake large loaves for
60-90 minutes or until a straw inserted in center comes out clean.
Comments.  MUST put in a gallon GLASS jar. Use fruit in juices NOT
syrup. The three pint jars of juice are the starters, one for you and
two for your friends.  Never refrigerate the starter! Day

:
Recipe By

From:

