Title: CHICKEN LIVER PATE' 2
Categories: Appetizers, Medieval, Elizabethan
Yield: 1 Cups
1    Recipe
How to make Livering Puddinges--Take the Liver of a Hogge, and give it
three or fower waumes over the fier. The either grate it or choppe it
verye small, and take a little grated bread and two egges well
beaten, whites and all, and Currans, Nutmegges, Pepper, and Salte,
and Hogges suet. --The Good Hous-wives Treasurie

"Puddyng time" was any time that puddings were to be had, hence a
time when one was in luck.  Well, it's pudding time for you: here is
an easy, pleasantly spiced pate' made with chicken livers. It would
be suitable as an hors d'oeuvre, appetizer, or luncheon entree.

1 pound chicken livers 1 quart salted, boiling water 1 tablespoon
bread crumbs 2 eggs, lightly beaten 3/4 teaspoon freshly grated
nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon freshly ground pepper Salt to taste 1 tablespoon
melted beef suet or rendered chicken fat 2 tablespoons currants
Garnish: currants, bay leaves, whole-wheat toast

1.  Plunge chicken livers into boiling water.  Cover and cook over
medium heat for 10 minutes. 2. Drain livers. Push them through the
fine blade of a food mill, or pound them into a paste with a mortar
and pestle. 3. In a bowl, combine remaining ingredients. 4. Add
mixture to ground liver, and stir to distribute evenly. 5. Place
"pudding" in a small serving bowl and chill at least 2 hours. 6.
Before serving, plant a few bay leaves in the "pudding", and scatter
currants around them. 7. Serve with small squares of whole-wheat
toast. Yield: 1 1/2 cups

