Title: A Calendar of Seasonal Produce+
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Produce that can be found fresh all year round are as follows:
bananas, carrots, coconuts, eggplants, garlic, ginger, kiwi, lemons,
limes, cultivated mushrooms, onions, parsley, snow peas, pineapple,
potatoes, radishes, scallions, sprouts, and watercress.

JANUARY; broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, chicory, fennel,
grapefruit, uglifruit, leeks, mandarin oranges.

FEBRUARY; broccoli, brussle sprouts, cauliflower, celery root,
cherimoyas, grapefruit, uglifruit, leeks, sweet oranges, shallots.

MARCH; artichokes, asparagus, avocados, beets, broccoli, cabbage,
chinese cabbage, cauliflower, celery root, chicory, chives, fennel,
grapefruit, uglifrkuit, greens, leeks, hed lettuce, leaf lettuce,
okra, seville oranges, parsnips, peas, rhubarb.

APRIL; artichokes, asparagus, avocados, beans, beets, broccoli,
cabbage, chinese cabbage, cauliflower, celery root, chicory, chili
peppers, chives, cucumbers, leeks, head lettuce, leaf lettuce, okra,
sweet oranges, papaya, peas, peppers, rhubarb, shallots, spinach,
summer squash, turnips.

MAY; artichokes, asparagus, avocados, basil, beans, beets, berries,
broccoli, cabbage, chinese cabbage, chives, cucumber, figs, head
lettuce, leaf lettuce, mangoes, okra, sweet oranges, papaya, peas,
peppers, rhubarb, shallots, sorrel, spinach, summer squash, turnips.

JUNE; apricots, arugula, basil, beans, beets, berries, cabbage,
cherries, chili peppersl chives, cucumbers, leaf lettuce, mangous,
okra, papaya, peppers, plums, sorrel, summer squash, watermelon.

JULY; apricots, arugula, basil, beans, beets, berries, cherries, chili
peppers, corn, cucumbers, grapes, mangoes, melons, nectarines, okra,
peaches, peppers, plums, sorrel, summer squash, tomatoes, watermelons.

AUGUST; apricots, arugula, basil, beans, berries, cherries, chili
peppers, corn, cucumbers, figs, grapes, mangoes, melons, okra,
peaches, peppers, plums, sorrel, summer squash, toamtoes, watermelons.

SEPTEMBER; arugula, beans, beets, berries, cabbage, chinese cabbage,
cauliflower, corn, cucumbers, dates, figs, grapes, okra, head
lettuce, leaf lettuce, mangoes, melons, wild mushrooms, pears,
shallots, sorrel, summer squash, tomatoes, watermelon.

OCTOBER; apples, beets, broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, chinese
cabbage, cauliflower, celery root, chicory, chili peppers,
cranberries, cucumbers, dates, fennel, figs, grapes, kumquats, leeks,
head lettuce, leaf lettuce, wild mushrooms, okra, peppers,
persimmons, pomegranites, prickly pears, quince, shallots, spinach,
starfruit, sweet potatoes, winter squash.

NOVEMBER; apples, broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, chinese cabbage,
cauliflower, celery root, chicory, cranberries, cucumbers, dates,
fennel, grapes, greens, kumquats, leeks, head lettuce, leaf lettuce,
wild mushrooms, mandarin oranges, sweet oranges, parsnips, pears,
persimmons, pomegranites, prickly pears, quince, shallots, spinach,
starfruit, sweet potatoes, winter squash

DECEMBER; apples, broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, chinese cabbage,
cauliflower, celery root, cherimoyas, chicory, cranberries, dates,
fennel, grapefruit, greens, kumquats, leeks, wild mushrooms, mandarin
oranges, sweet orange, parsnips, pears, persimmons, pomegranites,
prickly pears, quince, shallots, spinach, starfruit, sweet potatoes,
winter squash

With transportation of produce being what it is today-I feel this list
should be fairly accurate for any part of this continent.

Mary Riemerman
Submitted By INGE FRONDA   On   09-05-95

