Title: HOW TO COOK & SERVE A CROWN ROAST OF PORK-Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Holiday, Information, Meats
Yield: 1 info
CROWN CONSTRUCTION
1. Buy only the center portions of two pork loins with ribs of the
same size. Have the butcher saw vertically through the backbone
between each rib. The cuts enable you to curve the ribs into a crown
and to carve the meat after it's roasted.

2. Cut the fat and meat off the rib bones as far down as the eye of
the loin, leaving the bones exposed. Save the meat for another
purpose or use it to add to stuffing. Curve the loins to make
semicircles. The flat side of the ribs will be on the outside and the
meaty chop side will be on the inside of the crown.

3. Thread heavy cotton twine into a larding needle (or use a metal
poultry skewer to make a hole in the meat and push the twine through
the opening with the skewer). Start with the end rib of one of, the
loins and insert the needle through the meat near the bone at the
base of the crown; pull the twine through. With the same needle and
twine, repeat with the last rib on the other loin. Tie the two ends
of twine together in a knot. With another piece of twine, tie the
tips of the end ribs of the two loins together.

4. Firmly bend the meat in a circle until the other two ends of the
loins join. Repeat step 3 to tie together remaining ends of ribs at
two places. Place the crown in a 10 or 12 inch round metal pan to
help it hold its shape while roasting. Cover exposed ribs with
aluminum foil to prevent burning.

Country Living Holidays/1994 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

