Title: Naan Bread
Categories: Breads, Indian
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 ts Salt
2    Egg
1 c  Milk
4 tb Ghi
4 c  Flour
1 tb Sugar
1 tb Baking powder
1/4 ts Baking soda
In a deep bowl, combine the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda
and salt, and stir with a large spoon or fingers until well mixed.
Make a shallow well in the center, drop in the eggs, and stir them
into the flour mixture. Stirring constantly, pour in the milk in a
slow, thin stream and continue to stir until all the ingredients are
well combined.

Gather the dough into a ball and place it on a smooth, slick surface
such as a jelly roll pan or marble slab. Knead the dough for about 10
minutes, until the dough is smooth and can be gathered into a soft,
somewhat sticky ball. Sprinkle a little flour over and under it from
time to time while kneading to cut down on sticking.

Moisten the hands with a teaspoon of ghi, gather the dough into a
ball, and place it in a bowl, cover with a towel, and let the dough
rest in a warm, draft-free place about three hours.

Slide two large ungreased baking sheets into the oven and preheat the
oven and the pans to 450. Divide the dough into six equal portions.
Moistening the hands with ghi occasionally, flatten and form each
portion into a teardrop-shaped leaf, wide at the base and tapered at
the top. Each leaf should be about six inches long and 3-1/2" across
at its widest point, and about 3/8" thick. Arrange the bread leaves
side by side on the preheated baking sheets and bake them in the
middle of the oven for six minutes, or until they are firm to the
touch. Slide the leaves under the broiler for a minute or so to brown
the tops lightly. Serve hot or at room temperature.

Date: 03-12-95
From: Pcharles@iastate.Edu
Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   09-14-95

