Title: Pretzels (Alison)
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------FROM: ALISON MEYER--------------------------
2 ts Salt
1 tb Sugar
1 pk Yeast
1 1/2 c  Warm water
4 1/2 ea To 5 cups flour
Combine yeast and 1/2 c warm water in measuring cup, stirring with
fork until dissolved. Combine 2 c flour, salt, and sugar in bowl. Add
dissolved yeast and remaining 1 c warm water. Beat vigorously with
whisk or spoon for 2 minutes. Gradually add enough of remaining
flour, 1/4 c at a time, to make a soft dough. Turn out of bowl. Knead
until smooth and elastic, adding as little flour as necessary, about
8-10 minutes. Place dough in bowl, cover with plastic wrap, put in
warm place to rise until doubled in size. Punch down dough and divide
into 12 equal portions.  Roll each portion into an 18-20 inch long
rope, slightly tapered and thinner at ends.  (My Note: you may need
to allow the dough to rest once or twice if it's too elastic to hold
the rope shape.  It also helps to roll if your hands are clean and
slightly damp - you'll have to rinse them in between every piece or
so.) Form into pretzel shapes.  Place on 5-inch squares of baking
parchment. Cover with a towel and let rest 20-30 minutes. Bring to a
boil 6 cups of water, 1/3 cup baking soda, and 1/3 cup salt in a
large shallow pan. Gently drop 3 or 4 pretzels into the simmering
water, parchment side up. Remove parchment.  Poach first side 2
minutes.  Turn and poach other side 2 minutes.  Remove pretzels with
slotted spatula and place on towel to cool. Brush with an egg white
wash (1 egg white mixed with 1 Tbsp water). Sprinkle with coarse salt
(available in health food stores)  Bake on >greased< and >foil lined<
baking sheets at 375 degrees for 30 minutes. Remove from baking sheet
and cool on wire racks. These freeze very well.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   09-07-95

