Title: Rapini Facts
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
============
RAPINI FACTS
Move over Broccoli ... your cousin is in town! Rapini is trendy, a tad
bitter and full of what's good for you. LOOKS LIKE ~~~~~~~~~~ Rapini
is medium to dark green in color. It looks like broccoli, except that
has very slender stalks, more leaves and small clusters of tiny buds
instead of one large head. Sometimes the buds sprout into small
yellow flowers. ALSO KNOWN AS ... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rapini has lots
of aliases, such as: Italian broccoli, broccoli rabe, raab,
broccoli-rape and broccoli di rape. PRELIMINARY INTRODUCTIONS - The
entire plant is edible: stem, leaves, heads and flowers - Rapini has
a pleasant, slightly bitter flavor with the leaves tasting the
strongest. - Rapini is grown in Ontario and its season coincides with
broccoli. It is mostly available in Italian fresh produce stores,
butis being stocked in regular supermarkets more frequently. - Rapini
is a crusiferous vegetable and is closely related to cabbage,
broccoli, Brussel sprouts, cauliflower, kohlrabi and kale. BUYING AND
STORING ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - Look for firm rapini avoiding wilted or
yellow leaves and stems. - Store in the refrigerator unwashed and use
within a few days of buying. COOKING ~~~~~~~ - Rapini is as versatile
as broccoli. It can be sauteed, braised, steamed, broiled, stir-fried
or cooked in the microwave. - The stems take longer to cook than the
leaves and buds. Cook them first. - Quick cooking is the rule,
cutting the heat when rapini is barely tender and bright green.
RAPINI PARTNERS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - Lemon juice, white wine vinegar,
garlic, red pepper flakes, anchovies, olive oil butter, parmesan,
scallions, shallots, onions and Italian sausage all work well with
rapini. - The pungent, earthy flavor of rapini marries well with such
mild foods as eggs, pasta, risotto, polenta, cheese, potatoes and
puree of fava beans. - Try rapini in omelettes, quiches and
frittatas. Toss it with pasta, olive oil, roasted garlic, parmesan
and Italian sausages. Serve it au gratin or sauteed with garlic and
lemon juice. NUTRITION TIP OF THE WEEK ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Rappini is an excellent source of vitamins A and C and a good source
of calcium, iron and potassium. Plus, it's low in calories andhigh in
fibre. From An Article In FOODsmarts: Rapini by Madeleine Greey in
Toronto Star (27 August, 1995) Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   08-27-95

