Title: Rattlesnake Bites
Categories: Game, Snacks, Appetizers
Yield: 1 text file
No ingredients
Rattlesnake Bites (for sure, this is a REAL appetizer served in a
local Southwestern restaurant, no lie!) Method only, no quantities
Rattlesnake, skinned, poached, meat picked from bones Minced onion
Minced garlic Chili powder Minced Bell pepper Finely shredded Jack
cheese

Mix together in quantities of preference.  You will need a
consistency that will hold together slightly.  If necessary, use a
little egg and breadcrumbs to accomplish this.

Large whole pickled jalapeno peppers (Old El Paso is a good brand),
halved lengthwise and seeded.

Stuff each jalapeno half with some of the mixture.  Place on a baking
sheet until stuffing is hot and bubbly, and slightly set. Serve warm,
with hot sauce and warm corn tortillas on the side.

True story: When I was a store manager for a retail housewares
corporation, I had this restaurant in the store for a cooking demo,
and their chefs made this dish, including poaching the rattlesnake.
Unfortunately, the large saute pan containing the coiled up snake was
immediately accessible to the public area (as demo kitchens tend to
be). Naturally, a rugged individual (a little old lady who spends her
Sunday afternoons lifting the lids on pans in other people's homes)
just HAD to see what was in that pot...I nearly had to call 9-1-1
when she lifted the lid. She dropped the lid that was in one hand,
dropped the shopping bag that was in the other, *staggered* backward
three steps, grabbed her chest, you get the picture...It was the kind
of ingrained curiosity (busy-bodyness) that nearly made a nightmare
out of an otherwise placid Saturday afternoon. She was angry, but
what could she say? I'm glad she lived, though; the paperwork
otherwise would have killed ME <VBG>.

Regards, Richard Douville internet richard.douville@ghawk.com
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   08-19-95

