Title: Sprouting
Categories: Vegetables, Information
Yield: 1 servings
=========
SPROUTING
When a bean or seed sprouts, a quiet miracle occurs. Without soil,
light, or any ingredient other than water, the seed or bean
manufactures its own life-giving nutrients, nourishing itself until
it has grown enough to benefit from soil and sun. This process
involves converting carbohydrates to simple sugars and results in a
wealth of vitamins and minerals ++ all of them important to human
nutrition. Sprouts are high in protein, easy to digest, and full of
enzymes that aid the chemical reactions that take place within the
human body. In particular, the amount of vitamin C in sprouts is
exceedingly high, often surpassing that found in equal amounts of
citrus fruit. And their extraordinary low calorie content ranges from
16 calories per cup for mung beans, alfalfa, and radish sprouts to 65
calories per cup for soybeans, lentils and peas. The beauty of
sprouts is that they can be grown virtually anywhere ++ in a homemade
kitchen, garden, at the office, even in a suitcase. Practically any
bean or seed can be sprouted, and each has its own unique flavor,
from spicy radish to nutty lentil. Preservative-free and naturally
delicious, sprouts make a crunchy, slightly sweet, low calorie snack,
great for dieters. 1. MEASURING THE BEANS: Because beans produce
different size sprouts and will decay if too crowded in their growing
medium, it is crucial to measure the beans before beginning. For best
results using a  1-quart jar, see chart below for the most commonly
sprouted beans. TYPE OF BEAN AMOUNT PER QUART JAR LENGTH OF SPROUT AT
HARVEST ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1
Adzuki Bean 1/2 cup 1 - 1 1/2 inch Alfalfa 2 tablespoons
1/2 - 2 inch Corn 1 1/2 cups 1/2 inch Garbanzo 1 cup 1/2 inch Lentil
3/4 cup 1/4 - 1 inch Mung Bean 1/3 cup 1 - 3 inches Radish 3
1 - 2 inches 2. SOAKING THE BEANS: Pour
tablespoons
measureed beans into a 1-quart jar; add 4 times as much water as
beans. Cut a piece of cheesecloth or wire mesh to cover mouth of jar,
and secure by screwing on outer ring of canning lid (do not use the
flat, metal circle) or with a rubber band. Soak beans at least 8
hours or overnight. Water softens the out hull of the bean,
permeating it with moisture, awakening the dormant bean. 3. DRAINING
THE BEANS: Tip jar and drain soaking liquid into a bowl (the
mineral-rich liquid is great for houseplants). Fill jar with tap
water to rinse beans drain again ++ no need to remove the mesh.
Invert jar on an angle in bottom of baking pan with 2 to 4 inch
sides. This permits excess water to drain while maintaining a moist
environment. Place jar and pan in a dark place, or cover with a
towel. Rinse and drain beans 3-4 times a day to remove wastes
released by germinating beans, returning pan to darkness each time.
4. SPROUTING DIFFERENT BEANS: If desired, several jars, each
containing a different kind of bean, may be placed in the same way in
a pan of appropriate size. (We found a fish poacher that accomodated
four 1-quart jars perfectly). Sprouts may be rinsed and drained at
the same time and harvested as they become ready. As sprouts develop,
their flavor changes; taste growing sprouts for the flavor you
prefer. When sprouts are ready, place in a bowl of cold water; remove
any loose husks or decaying sprouts. Strain and shake off excess
water. Store, refrigerated, in a closed towel-lined container about 1
week. To develop the nutrition-rich chlorophyll in sprouts, lay
sprouts flat in a nonmetallic pan, dampen slightly, and cover with
plastic wrap. Place on a windowsill in the sun for about 4 hours.
From: Weight Watchers Magazine, March 1985. Transcribed By: S.
Lefkowitz

Submitted By JIM VORHEIS   On   09-17-95

