Title: To Keep the Picnic From Becoming a Disaster
Categories: Newspaper, Information
Yield: 1 servings
1    Textfile
**  To Keep the Picnic From Becoming a Disaster  **

As the temperature outside rises, so does the potential for food
poisoning at picnics.  Prevent spoiled food from spoiling the reunion
by following these food safety tips from the U.S. Department of
Agriculture and the Tarrant County Extension Service.

*  Keep hands, utensils and work surfaces clean.  Wash hands
thoroughly and often when preparing foods, especially after handling
raw meat. Take along disposable hand wipes in case there is no
running water at the picnic site. Don't allow plates or utensils
contaminated by raw meat to come into contact with cooked meat or
other food.

*  Cook food thoroughly, without interruption.  To ensure that coals
are hot enough, burn them about 20 to 30 minutes until they are
lightly coated with ash.  Beef and pork should be cooked until no
pink remains, poultry until there is no red in the joints.  Because
grilled food is usually well-browned on the outside, a test cut is
the best way to tell if the meat is done.  Partially cooking meats
before the picnic to finish up on the grill allows bacteria to
multiply to the point that subsequent cooking can't destroy them.

*  Keep hot foods hot.  High temperatures (165 - 212Ã¸F) kill most
food - poisoning bacteria.  Hot foods should be wrapped in towels,
then newspaper, and placed inside boxes or paper bags for transport
to the picnic site. Serve grilled foods immediately after cooking, or
keep them warm on the grill.

*  Keep cold foods cold.  Keep perishable items, such as ham, potato
salad, lunch meat or deviled eggs, in a cooler containing ice or a
freeze -pack insert.  Place the cooler in the shade at the picnic and
in the car's passenger compartment, not in the trunk, when
transporting it. Having a separate cooler for drinks will reduce the
number of times the food cooler is opened and exposed to heat.
Replenish the ice as needed.

*  Protect the food from environmental hazards.  Before setting out
the food, inspect the area to make sure the spot isn't a haven for
birds, squirrels, flies or other unwanted guests that might
contaminate it. As an extra precaution, cover foods with plastic wrap
before and after they are served.

*  Don't leave food out for long periods of time.  Unless it is to be
served right away, refrigerate food immediately after preparation,
preferably in small, shallow containers for quick cooling.  Thaw
frozen meat in the refrigerator, not on the counter.  At the cookout,
remove from the cooler only the amount of meat that will fit on the
grill. Food should not be left on a picnic table in warm weather for
more than an hour.

*  When in doubt, check it out.  For additional food safety
information, call the USDA meat and poultry hot line at (800)
535-4555, 9am to 3pm on weekdays.

**  Fort Worth Star Telegram - Food section - 26 July 1995  ** Posted
by The WEE Scot  --  Paul MacGregor
Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   08-17-95

