Title: POTATO SOUP (LOW FAT)
Categories: Soups, Vegetables
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Text Only
Get out a pot about the size of the amount of soup you want to make.
Fill it about 1/2 full of water.  Peel and dice potatoes into bite
size chunks, about 1 medium size per person. Put them into the water.
Dice a medium size onion, add to the pot.  Peel a couple of carrots,
slice then thin to cook in about the same amount of time as the
potatoes. Bring to boil on the stove, turn down and simmer.  Season
with salt and pepper to taste. (Lots of pepper, for my taste). When
the potatoes and carrots are soft, add 1 can of evaporated skim milk.
I do not thicken the soup with anything, but I do cook the potatoes
till they are quite done. I put diced cheese into the bowls, ladle
the hot soup into the bowls. If you used a low fat cheese, you could
do this too, or you can skip the cheese. Also, to make a more filling
soup, I add "rivells" to my soup (for a low fat soup, you would have
to use egg substitute).  Take 1 or 2 eggs, beaten slightly, add 1
half eggshell full of milk, and salt to taste, then flour to make a
fairly stiff dough, drop little bits of this from a fork into the
boiling soup. If you add the rivells just after the soup boils, they
will be done when the potatoes are done, proceed with the evaporated
milk, etc. The above soup would have no fat, (except the rivells
version) till you add the cheese. Oh, yes, if I have celery, I throw
in a stalk or two diced with the onion and carrot. You can't make
anything any simplier.

Posted by Julene Nash. Courtesy of Fred Peters.

