Title: PRIME RIB *** GGTM33A
Categories: Main dish, Beef, Party
Yield: 1 Servings
1 x  Salt
1 x  Pepper
1 x  Garlic powder
1 ea Rib roast
Preheat  oven at 500 degrees for a minimum of 20 minutes. Season the
prime rib to taste (salt, pepper, garlic pow- der), put in preheated
oven and roast for 5 minutes per pound. Turn oven off and leave roast
in there for two hours.  DO NOT OPEN OVEN FOR ANY REASON, until the
two hours are up. This makes a very rare, very juicy, prime rib with
a crusty outside. (As I said,  this method applies  to any beef
roast, but it must be AT LEAST 5 pounds.  2. (This is for a 4 rib
roast). Bring roast to room temperature. Rub fat (not flesh) with
salt and pepper. Stand roast on its bones, fatty side up, in a
shallow roasting pan and put it in preheated 350 oven. Time it:
calculate 17 minutes of cooking time per 1 lb. of roast that is to be
well done on the outside and very rare inside--so that it can be
allowed to stand for 15 min- utes out of the oven before it is
carved. This gives the juices a chance to settle and makes carving
easier. If you are using a meat thermometer, insert it so that the
point is in the center of the meat, not touching the bone. For very
rare meat, the internal temperature should read 125 degrees.
Remember, the roast contin- ues to cook after it is taken out of the
oven. JANE HERTER (GGTM33A)

