Title: RACLETTE
Categories: Appetizers, Swiss
Yield: 1 Servings
Raclette cheese
Roasted potatoes
Bread
Raclette cheese is also called Bagnes, Gomser, Valais Raclette, and
Fromage a Raclette. There are a number of Raclette-type cheeses in
Switzerland; among these are Belsano and Belalp. Gruyere is somewhat
similar.

Raclette is made in Switzerland, primarily in the canton of Valais;
most is made on farms of unpasteurized whole cow's milk. The cheese
is in the Swiss flavor family. It tastes mild and delicious when
served at room temperature; soft and nutty; heating unlocks extra
flavors and aroma. Texture is very firm. The cheese resembles
Gruyere, with a slightly rough, light-brown rind and a
pale-ivory-yellow to light-brown interior with more holes than
Gruyere.

Swiss cheese are quite reliable; federal inspectors grade the cheeses
according to strict standards. Swiss law prohibits the use of
artificial additives, coloring agents, and milk from cows fed on
silage. The rind should be even and have no cracks. The cheese should
not be sharp. The text should not be grainy. Best is between four and
six months old; if uncut, will continue to age. If cut, keeps about
one month if well-wrapped.

To prepare Raclette: A thick slice is cut across the surface of the
whole cheese and toasted until runny and bubbling. It is usually
eaten with a roasted potato. Another method is to put the slice of
cheese in front of a fire and then scrape it onto bread.

Also served unheated as a table cheese at the end of meals.

Good with light German beer and white Swiss wines, such as Fendant.

Source: "The Signet Book of Cheese" by Peter Quimme

