Title: RECOMMENDED CANNERS (PART 2 OF 3)
Categories: Canning, Information
Yield: 1 Guide  Pressure Canners

Pressure canners for use in the home have been extensively redesigned
in recent years. Models made before the 1970's were heavy-walled
kettles with clamp-on or turn-on lids. They were fitted with a dial
gauge, a vent port in the form of a petcock or counterweight, and a
safety fuse. Modern pressure canners are lightweight, thin-walled
kettles; most have turn-on lids. They have a jar rack, gasket, dial
or weighted gauge, an automatic vent/cover lock, a vent port (steam
vent) to be closed with a counterweight or weighted gauge, and a
safety fuse.

Pressure does not destroy microorganisms, but high temperatures
applied for an adequate period of time do kill microorganisms. The
success of destroying all microorganisms capable of growing in canned
food is based on the temperature obtained in pure steam, free of air,
at sea level. At sea level, a canner operated at a gauge pressure of
10.5 lbs. provides an internal temperature of 240 degrees F.

Two serious errors in temperatures obtained in pressure canners occur
because:

* Internal canner temperatures are lower at higher altitudes. To
correct this error, canners must be operated at the increased
pressures specified in this publication for appropriate altitude
ranges.

* Air trapped in a canner lowers the temperature obtained at 5, 10,
or 15 pounds of pressure and results in underprocessing. The highest
volume of air trapped in a canner occurs in processing raw-packed
foods in dial-gauge canners. These canners do not vent air during
processing. To be safe, all types of pressure canners must be vented
10 minutes before they are pressurized.

To vent a canner, leave the vent port uncovered on newer models or
manually open petcocks on some older models. Heating the filled
canner with its lid locked into place boils water and generates steam
that escapes through the petcock or vent port. When steam first
escapes, set a timer for 10 minutes. After venting 10 minutes, close
the petcock or place the counterweight or weighted gauge over the
vent port to pressurize the canner.

Weighted-gauge models exhaust tiny amounts of air and steam each time
their gauge rocks or jiggles during processing. They control pressure
precisely and need neither watching during processing nor checking
for accuracy. The sound of the weight rocking or jiggling indicates
that the canner is maintaining the recommended pressure. The single
disadvantage of weighted-gauge canners is that they cannot correct
precisely for higher altitudes. At altitudes above 1,000 feet, they
must be operated at canner pressures of 10 instead of 5, or 15
instead of 10, PSI.

Check dial gauges for accuracy before use each year and replace if
they read high by more than 1 pound at 5, 10, or 15 pounds of
pressure. Low readings cause over-processing and may indicate that
the accuracy of the gauge is unpredictable. Gauges may be checked at
most county Cooperative Extension offices.

Handle canner lid gaskets carefully and clean them according to the
manufacturer's directions. Nicked or dried gaskets will allow steam
leaks during pressurization of canners. Keep gaskets clean between
uses. Gaskets on older model canners may require a light coat of
vegetable oil once per year. Gaskets on newer model canners are
pre-lubricated and do not benefit from oiling. Check your canner's
instructions if there is doubt that the particular gasket you use has
been pre-lubricated.

Lid safety fuses are thin metal inserts or rubber plugs designed to
relieve excessive pressure from the canner. Do not pick at or scratch
fuses while cleaning lids. Use only canners that have the
Underwriter's Laboratory (UL) approval to ensure their safety.

Replacement gauges and other parts for canners are often available at
stores offering canning equipment or from canner manufacturers. When
ordering parts, give your canner model number and describe the parts
needed.

======================================================= === * USDA
Agriculture Information Bulletin No. 539 (rev. 1994) * Meal-Master
format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

