Title: TURKEY ROAST
Categories: Information
E  *****
Yield: 1 Servings

Allow 1 lb. per person.  Rinse bird and pat dray with paper toweling.
Remove bag of organs and discard. Rub inside of cavities with salt if
desired.  Do not stuff the bird until just before cooking. Soon some
of the stuffing loosely into the neck cavity; pull the neck skin to
the back of the bird and fasten securely with a small skewer. Lightly
spoon remaining stuffing into the body cavity. If the opening has a
band of skin across the tail, tuck the drumsticks under the bank; if
the band of skin is not present, tie legs securely tothe tail. Twist
wing tips under back. For an unstuffed bird, place quartered onions
and celery in the body cavity, if desired.  Prepare and roast.
Discard vegetables after roasting bird, if desired. The onions taste
good though. Place bird, breast-side up, on a rack in a shallow
roasting pan. Brush skin of bird, except duckling and goose, with
cooking oil or spray with Pam. If a meat thermometer is used, insert
it in the center of the inside thigh muscle, making sure the bulb
does not touch bone.  Cover the bird loosely with foil. Press lightly
over the drumsticks and neck; leave an air space between bird and
foil. When the bird is about two-thirds done, cut the band or string
between the legs so thighs will cook evenly. Baste bird occasionally;
if desired. Uncover the last 45 minutes of cooking. Continue roasting
until bird is done. Remove bird from oven and recover loosely with
foil to keep warm. Let stand 15 minutes before carving. The meat
thermometer inserted in the thigh should register 185 degrees. Also
the thickest part of the drumstick should feel very soft when pressed
between the fingers. The drumstick also should move up and down and
twist easily in the socket. As each bird differs in size, shape or
variety, mroasting times can be only approximate.

:
Recipe By

