Title: WASHINGTON~ D.C. RESTAURANT
Categories: Digest, Restaurant
Yield: 1 Servings
1 x  Text file
Oh, but there IS a partially low-fat/VLF vegetarian restaurant in the
Washington D.C. area! It's called the Vegetable Garden. Located in
Rockville, it is directly across from the White Flint metro station on
Rockville Pike, just down the street from White Flint Mall and Fresh
Fields (which also offers many vegetarian options with its deli
selection, though they are not necessarily super low fat).

This restaurant has been out of business for six months since they
recently moved from the mall to its new location. They are a
completely vegan Chinese restaurant specializing in fake meats. If
you had ever been to them in their previous location, be prepared for
some major changes in their menu. They have a whole section of
"oil-free" dishes, none of which I have ever tried unfortunately.
They have some very unusual dishes. If you are a mushroom fan, I urge
you to try the Hen of the Woods dishes (it's a type of mushroom that
looks similar to oyster, but that are crunchy and firm!).

The restaurant only offers brown rice, and does not have fortune
cookies. They serve good water, have a juice bar for fresh juices (I
believe) and they offer Tofutti desserts.

I wish I could visit them more often. I will miss then when I move
out of state.

There are also two fairly new raw foods restaurants, which are
probably good places to try and find low fat options. Green City is
one, which is in Bethesda, and Garden of Delights or something very
similar, which is in Georgetown.

Vegetarian restaurants are prolific in the D.C. area. Due to PETA
being in the area, all of the restaurants that offer selections will
have a "V" sticker in the window/door, which advertise that they
"carry vegetarian meals."

Good luck! Tara

From:    tara@starburst.umd.edu (Tara McDermott). Fatfree Digest
[Volume 8 Issue 49] June 10, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

