Title: Basic Kuchen Yeast Dough
Categories: Jewish
Yield: 1 servings
BASIC KUCHEN YEAST DOUGH
========================
............................
-...........................
-.............
This is a marvelous yeast dough recipe, handed down from generation to
generation. It is easy to by hand or, for a smooth lighter dough, in
an electric mixer. Fill it with your favourite filling, or fit
one-third of it into a loaf pan or square pan. Top with streusel or
fill it with a cheese mixture.
....................................................................
8-9 c Flour 1 3/4 c Warm Water 2 ea Cakes Compressed Yeast or 2 pk.
dry Yeast 1/2-3/4 c  Sugar 3 ea Eggs 3/4 c Oil 1 tb Salt 1 ea Rind of
1 Lemon; grated 1/2 c  Raisins (optional) GLAZE: 1 ea Egg Yolk,
combined with 1 ts. water Put 7 cups of flour itno a large mixing
bowl. Make a well in the center and pour in 1 cup of the warm water.
Crumble yeast with 1 teaspoon of sugar on top. Let stand for 5-10
minutes until yeast foams. With your fingers, mix yeast mixture into
flour. Add sugar, eggs, oil, salt, lemon rind and raisins, if
desired. Beat in remaining water, a little at a time, beating well
after each addition. Dough will be sticky. Knead for 10 minutes, add
remaining flour. Dough should be very soft. Place in a greased bowl,
turn, and cover with a towel. Set in a warm place to rise until
double in bulk ++ about 1 1/2-2 hours. Punch down (if desired, let
rise again until double and punch down). Divide into 3 parts for 3
cakes. After shaping and filling each cake, cover and let rise for
only 30-40 minutes. Brush with egg glaze. Bake in a 375F oven for
30-35 minutes until golden brown. From: Classic Kosher Cooking by
Sara Finkel Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   06-04-95

