Title: Food Processor Challah
Categories: Breads, Jewish
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-------------------FOOD PROCESSOR CHALLAH------------------------
I've forund that using a food processor makes the softest and most
pliable dough. It is quick and easy to make one batch after another
with minimum of mess to clean up afterwards.
................................................................... 1
pk Fresh or Dry Yeast 1 ts Sugar 3/4 c Warm Water 3 c Flour 1/3-1/2 c
Sugar 1 ts Salt 1 ea Egg 1/4 c Oil GLAZE: 1 ea Egg Yolk; beaten with
1 ts oil and 1 ts sugar x Sesame or Poppy Seeds (optional) Dissolve
yeast and 1 teaspoon of sugar in warm water. Let stand for 5 minutes
until foamy. Put flour, sugar and salt in food processor. Add egg,
oil and yeast mixture. Process until dough leaves sides of container
and forms a ball ++ about 40 seconds. Place dough on a ligtly floured
board and knead until smooth ++ about 2 minutes. Place in a greased
bowl and turn. Cover with a cloth. Let rise in a warm place until
doubled in bulk. ++ about 1 1/2 hours. Punch ddown and shape into 2
loaves. Place in a greased pan. Cover and let rise again in a warm
place for about 1 hour. Brush with glaze. If desired, sprinkle with
poppy or sesame seeds. Bake in preheated 375F oven for about 40
minutes. Yields 2 medium-sized loaves. VARIATION: Shape dough into
small rolls, and bake in preheated 375F oven for 20 minutes. From:
Classic Kosher Cooking by Sara Finkel (1989) ISBN 0-944070-14-0
Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   05-22-95

