Title: Four Way Hamburger Mix
Categories: Meats, Casseroles, Main dish, Mixes
Yield: 1 servings
1 lb Ground beef
1 sm Onion
1 sl Bread
1 ea Egg
2 tb Milk
3/4 ts Salt
1/8 ts Pepper
Combine all ingredients.  Divide mixture into four equal portions.
Use a portion for each of the following recipe ideas. MEAT PATTY:
Shape 1/4 of mixture into patty about 1/2" thick.  Place on glass
plate or roasting rack in baking dish.  Cover with paper towel.
Microwave at full power 3-4 minutes or until done. To cook frozen
patty, increase time to 4 1/2 - 5 1/2 minutes. MEAT LOAF: Press 1/4
of mixture into glass custard cup. Spread with 1 tsp. catsup. cover
with waxed paper. Microwave at full power 3-4 minutes or until done.
Remove to serving plate. To cook frozen loaf, increase time to 5-6
minutes. MEATBALLS AND GRAVY: 1/4 of hamburger mix 1/2 c. water 1 Tbl
flour 1 tsp beef bouillon 1/4 tsp parsley flakes Shape meat mixture
into 3 meatballs.  Arrange in glass serving dish. Cover with paper
towel.  Microwave at full power 2 1/2-3 minutes. or until done. Drain
fat. Combine water, flour bouillon and parsley in 1 cup glass
measure, stir until smooth.  Microwave at full power 1-1 1/2 minutes
or until mixture boils, stirring once or twice. Pour over meatballs.
Microwave at full power, uncovered, for 1-1 1/2 minutes or until hot.
To cook frozen meatballs, increase time to 4-5 minutes. HAMBURGER
CASSEROLE FOR ONE: 1/4 hamburger mix 2 Tbl chopped celery 1/2 c
condensed cream of mushroom soup 1/4 c   quick cooking rice 1/4 c
water 1/4 c chowmein noodles (optional) crumble meat mixture into 2
cup glass casserole or bowl.  Add celery. Microwave at full power 2
1/2-3 minutes or until meat is set.  Drain fat, mix in remaining
ingredients except noodles.  Cover with paper towel. Microwave at
full power 3-4 minutes or until rice is tender, stirring once.
Garnish with noodles. To cook frozen meat mixture, increase time to
of first microwave to 4-5 minutes. Stir mixture several times if it
has been frozen into a solid piece. Courtesy of: Joann Pierce Source:
Microwave Times

TO ALL  Submitted By JOYCE FLORY  SUBJ HUBBY HELP??    On   06-08-95

