Title: Light And Easy Indoor Picnics #8
Categories: Information
Yield: 4 servings
Cucumber Yogurt Soup With
-Fresh Mint
============================
-========
MMMMM-------------------------SERVES: 4------------------------------
This light soup uses low-fat yogurt as the base in place of the more
traditional sour cream. Not much salt is needed since the flavor of
the soup is enhanced naturally with the fresh herbs. INGREDIENTS: 1
large "European" hothouse cucumber, split and coarsely chopped, or 2
medium cucumbers, peeled, seeded, and coarsely chopped 3 tablespoons
freshly chopped mint 2 large scallions, green and white parts
included 1 1/2 tablespoons freshly snipped dill 1 clove garlic,
crushed and peeled 2 cups non-fat or low-fat yogurt Salt and freshly
ground white pepper to taste GARNISHES: Sliced cucumbers, sliced
radishes, chopped scallions, and grated hard-cooked egg (optional)
PREPARATION: 1. In a food processor or blender process the cucumber,
mint, scallions, dill, and garlic until well-combined but not smooth.
Add the yogurt and continue to puree until smooth. 2. Chill for 4-6
hours or overnight. 3. Adjust seasonings and serve the soup with the
accompanying garnishes of cucumbers, radishes, scallions and egg.
COOKING NOTES: Fresh mint is much more pungent than dried. However,
bunches of fresh mint can be wrapped in foil and frozen. Just cut off
what you need and chop. Cucumbers should be stored separately from
fruits and vegetables which produce ripening ethylene gas, such as
tomatoes, pears and peaches. Cucumbers, a relative of melons, are
very high in water, giving them refreshing properties that no doubt
prompted the description "cool asa cucumber."If you are fortunate
enough to pick up the little pickling cucumbers,they are crisper,
have less water, and can be substituted successfully. You can use 5
small ones in place of the large European cucumber. They similarly
don't need peeling since they are unlikely to have wax on them.
Copyright &copy; 1995 Laurie Burrows Grad. All rights reserved.
Getting http://www.2way.com/food/egg/laurie_r.html#squash

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   05-23-95

