Title: Light And Easy Indoor Picnics #6
Categories: Information
Yield: 6 servings
Cloud Brownies
==============
MMMMM------------------YIELD: 48 SMALL SQUARES-----------------------
These brownies are prepared with no added fats, just pureed prunes as
a substitute fortraditional butter and they still turn out moist and
delicious. Prepare these a day or two ahead and keep in an airtight
container or freeze for future use. INGREDIENTS: 3 egg whites, at room
temperature 2 eggs, at room temperature 2 cups sugar 4 (2 1/2-ounce)
jars baby food pureed prunes (replaces 1 cup butter) 2 teaspoons pure
vanilla 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 2
tablespoons instant decaffeinated coffee powder (not crystals)
Garnish: Powdered sugar PREPARATION: 1. Preheat the oven to 350F.
Lightly coat a 9"x13"x2" metal baking pan with vegetable cooking
spray. 2. In the large bowl of an electric mixer, beat the egg whites
and eggs with the sugar until pale and slightly thickened. Beat in
the prunes and vanilla until smooth. 3. In a medium bowl, sift the
flour with the cocoa and coffee and fold into the mixture until
well-combined. Spread the batter in the prepared pan and bake for 25
minutes, or until the brownies are set in the center. Remove from the
oven and cool on a rack. 4. When thoroughly cool, cut into 1-inch
squares and serve. Cucumber Yogurt Soup With Fresh Mint
==================================== [Serves: 4] This light soup uses
low-fat yogurt as the base in place of the more traditional sour
cream. Not much salt is needed since the flavor of the soup is
enhanced naturally with the fresh herbs. INGREDIENTS: 1 large
"European" hothouse cucumber, splitarsely chopped <OR> 2 medium
cucumbers, peeled, seeded, and coarsely chopped 3 tablespoons freshly
chopped mint 2 large scallions, green and white parts included 1 1/2
tablespoons freshly snipped dill 1 clove garlic, crushed and peeled 2
cups non-fat or low-fat yogurt Salt and freshly ground white pepper
to taste Garnishes: Sliced cucumbers, sliced radishes, chopped
scallions, and grated hard-cooked egg (optional) PREPARATION: 1. In a
food processor or blender process the cucumber, mint, scallions,
dill, and garlic until well-combined but not smooth. Add the yogurt
and continue to puree until smooth. 2. Chill for 4-6 hours or
overnight. 3. Adjust seasonings and serve the soup with the
accompanying garnishes of cucumbers, radishes, scallions and egg.
COOKING NOTES: Fresh mint is much more pungent than dried. However,
bunches of fresh mint can be wrapped in foil and frozen. Just cut off
what you need and chop. Cucumbers should be stored separately from
fruits and vegetables which produce ripening ethylene gas, such as
tomatoes, pears and peaches. Cucumbers, a relative of melons, are
very high in water, giving them refreshing properties that no doubt
prompted the description "cool asa cucumber. "If you are fortunate
enough to pick up the little pickling cucumbers,they are crisper,
have less water, and can be substituted successfully. You can use 5
small ones in place of the large European cucumber. They similarly
don't need peeling since they are unlikely to have wax on them. ++- *
VbReader 2.22 #549 * "Practice senseless, random acts of kindness."
++- QScan/PCB v1.15b / 01-0348 * Origin: FidoNet: CRS Online,
Toronto, Ontario (1:229/15) From: Sam Lefkowitz Date: 05-23-95
Subject: Indoor Picnic#7 *CR*(7/8)
======================================================================
==== ==== -cont. 7 of 8 -Begin Recipe Export- QBook version 1.00.14

