Title: Light And Easy Indoor Picnics #4
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
Laurie's Recipes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
These recipes are all from Laurie's book, Make It Easy, Make It Light
and her national cable cooking show, Laurie Cooks Light & Easy, seen
daily on The Learning Channel. Copyright &copy; 1995 Laurie Burrows
Grad. All rights reserved. Getting
http://www.2way.com/food/egg/laurie_r.html#squash Chilled Summer
Squash Soup with Fresh Herbs
=========================================== This soup can be prepared
as below or varied by using all zucchini, all crookneck, or even all
pattypan squash. Pattypan squash, also known as cymling or scallop
squash, is a tiny saucer-shaped vegetable with a scalloped edge. It
should be firm and without blemishes. It is best to use fresh herbs
for this soup. INGREDIENTS: 4 medium zucchini, washed and cut into 1"
slices 1 large yellow crookneck squash, washed and cut into 1" slices
1 pattypan squash, quartered 1 large onion, thinly sliced 1 teaspoon
finely minced garlic 3-3 1/2 cups defatted chicken broth Salt and
freshly ground white pepper to taste 2 tablespoons finely chopped
fresh basil 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh parsley 1 tablespoon
lemon juice 1 cup buttermilk Garnish: Chopped fresh basil and parsley
PREPARATION: 1. In a large saucepan place all the squash. Add the
onion, garlic, broth and salt and pepper; bring to a boil, cover,
reduce heat and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the vegetables
are very tender. 2. Allow to cool slightly; puree in a food processor
or blender with the basil, parsley and lemon juice until smooth. Stir
in the buttermilk. Place in a container, cover and refrigerate for 6
hours or overnight. 3. When ready to serve, whisk until smooth and
adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper. Serve chilled, garnished
with chopped basil and parsley. VARIATIONS: Plain low-fat or non-fat
yogurt can be substituted for the buttermilk.If fresh basil is
unavailable, substitute 1/4 cup parsley for the basil-parsley
combination. COOKING NOTES: It is always important to taste food for
seasoning after chilling since the flavor is more pronounced when the
food is hot.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   05-23-95

