Title: Light And Easy Indoor Picnics
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
You Can Take It With You: Light And Easy Picnics
================================================

By definition, picnics are a social entertainment, at which each
person contributes food to a common table ++ an excursion, or an
outing in the open, a time free of ordinary cares and
responsibilities ++ and, a sink full of dirty dishes, which has never
been my favorite finish to a warm relaxing meal. The best thing about
picnicking indoors, by the way, is that there are no ants. And...you
are very close to a sink. Which reminds me to remind you ...when you
do pack up this wonderful picnic food in either of the menus below ++
remember to bring along wet napkins. Do people ever discuss wet
napkins before you go on a trip in the car, or on a picnic? No, they
tell you after you've come home painted in barbecue sauce. So, I have
compiled a not-to-be-missed list of essentials for the well-packed
picnic basket. Essentials For The Well-Packed Picnic Basket
============================================ Plastic or paper plates
Reusable, heavy-duty forks, knives, and spoons (can be plastic)
Reusable, heavy-duty serving pieces (can be plastic) Reusable,
heavy-duty plastic glassesPaper or cloth napkins Roll of paper towels
Garbage Bag Small cutting board, for cutting breads or meats Bread
knife or sharp knifeCan opener and corkscrew Sturdy tablecloth that
doubles as a picnic basket liner Salt and pepperMatches Thermos for
drinks or soups - and mugs if soup is on the menu Small flashlight
Insect repellent First aid kit Wet napkins Another key issue to keep
in mind when packing a picnic is safety. You are not packing a first
aid kit with the hope of using it! First make sure that you had clean
hands and clean surfaces when preparing the food. Store the readied
foods in tightly sealed containers in the refrigerator until the food
is thoroughly chilled prior to the picnic. If foods are to be served
hot, keep them hot in a thermos. If foods are to be grilled at the
picnic, you might carry the poultry or meat frozen in a cooler.
Remember to pack the foods and drinks you know you are going to want
immediately right on top. Place frozen cold packs in the picnic
cooler ++ if nothing else when your husband's back goes out carrying
the picnic basket, he'll find some relief. Now that we are in the
90's, planning a picnic involves selecting lighter foods ++ foods
that allow you to enjoy the hot day without feeling like you ingested
a bowling ball! Plan to serve foods that allow you to look fit and
slip into that tiny bikini, well, at least slip into a bathing suit
that doesn't look like it was made by Omar the Tentmaker.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   05-23-95

