Title: Summer Sizzles: A Healthy Backyard Banquet
Categories: Bbq/grill, Healthy
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
SUMMER SIZZLES: A HEALTHY BACKYARD BANQUET
==========================================

In the summer, maintaing a balanced and healthy diet is easy. Fresh
vegetables can be found everywhere, even in your own backyard. The
other summer time health bonus in your backyard is the barbecue. Fats
and oils drip away from grilled foods, making barbecuing a great way
to cook almost anything. "Rose Reisman Brings Home Light Cooking" is
full of healthy recipe ideas you can use year round. Try this one for
seafood on the barbecue. SEAFOOD KABOBS WITH SNOW PEAS AND RED PEPPER
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 lb Seafood [500 g]
(shrimps, scallops, squid or combination) 1 lg Sweet Red Pepper 1/2
md Onion 16 ea Snow Peas; trimmed MARINADE: 3 tb Sherry or Rice Wine
Vinegar (45 ml) 3 tb Vegetable Oil (45 ml) 2 tb Soya Sauce (25 ml) 2
tb Water (25 ml) 4 ts Brown Sugar (20 ml) 1 1/2 ts Ginger Root (7
ml); minced 1 ts Garlic (5 ml); crushed 1. If necessary, cut seafood
into equal-sized pieces. Cut red pepper and onion into 2 inch (5 cm)
pieces. Alternately thread seafood, peppers, snow peas and onions
onto barbecue skewers. 2. Marinade: Combine sherry, oil, soya sauce,
water, sugar, ginger and garlic; pour into dish large enough to hold
kabobs. Add kabobs; marinate for 15 minutes, turning occasionally. 3.
Barbecue kabobs brushing with marinade and truning once, for 5
minutes or until seafood is opaque. PER SERVING: 246 calories; 19 g
protein; 11 g fat; 13 g carbohydrates; 680 mg sodium; 140 mg
cholesterol; and 1 g fibre. Rose Reisman suggests trying this recipe
using one or more firm fish varieties, such as tuna, monkfish or
swordfish. GREEK PASTA SALAD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A cool pasta salad is
the perfect companion or a sizzling seafood kabob. Try thi srecipe
from the cookbook "Rose Reisman Brings Home Light Pasta". 12 oz Bow
Tie Pasta (375 g) 2 3/4 c Tomatoes (675 ml); diced 1 c  Cucumbers
(250 ml); diced 1 c Green Peppers (250 l); diced 3/4 c Red Onions
(175 ml); sliced 3 1/2 oz Feta Cheese (90 g); crumbled 1/3 c Black
Olives (75 ml); sliced 1/2 c Fresh Oregano (125 ml); chopped (or 1
tb./15 ml dried) DRESSING: 1/4 c Olive Oil (50 ml) 3 tb Lemon Juice
(45 ml) 2 tb Water (25 ml) 2 tb Balsamic Vinegar (25 ml) 2 tb Garlic
(10 ml); crushed 1. Cook pasta according to package instructions or
ntil firm to the bite. Rinse in cold water. Drain and place in
serving bowl. 2. Add tomatoes, cucumbers, green peppers, onions, feta
cheese, olives and oregano. 3. MAKE THE DRESSING: In a small bowl
combine oil, vinegar, lemon juice, water and garlic until mixed. Pour
over pasta and toss. PER SERVING: 318 calories; 9 g protein; 11 g
fat; 3 g saturatd fat; 47 g carbohydrates; 224 mg sodium; 10 mg
cholesterol; and 5 g fibre. Some tips from Rose Reisman: penne,
rotini  or medium shell pasta can be used. Sweet Vidalia onions ar
excellent when in season. Fresh Oregano makes this salad exceptional.
For summer sipping, try any combination of juices, carbonated drinks
and even Kool-Aid, poured over a chilled mug full of ice, for instant
refreshment. Have some fun with your summer drinks. Use your ice tray
to freeze your favorite juice. When frozen, use your juice cubes to
add dash to a glass of tonic, water, other carbonated drink or fruit
combination drink. Unlike regular ice cubes, juice cubes add flavor
to your drink while keeping it cool. This summer, health and taste
are companions. Invite them to meet around your backyard picnic table
and enjoy the season to the fullest. From: Rose Reisman Home Light
Cooking and Rose Reisman Brings Home Light Pasta by Rose Reisman 1994
Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   06-20-95

