Title: CARING FOR & STORING THE WOK
Categories: Info, Chinese
Yield: 1 Info
No ingredients
A properly seasoned wok should not be scoured with abrasive material
such as steel wool. After cooking foods in the wok, iti s best to run
very hot water into it and clean the surface of the wok with a bamboo
brush or plastic scour. Dry the wok thoroughly with a paper towel and
store for future use. Some gourmets will place a small amount of oil
on their fingertips to re-coat their woks to keep them in top cooking
condition. Eventually through repeated usage, a dark brown film will
develop in the wok. The wok is now truly seasoned. This film is
essentially carbon and is not harmful to one's health. The bottom of
the woks, the part that touches the cooking flame of the stove should
definitely be scoured over occasionally to free it of collected
residue.

If one has the misfortune to accidentally burn food in the wok, it
will be necessary to take steel wool and scour out the burnt material
and then re-season the wok once again. Each time that one has to
scour out the wok with abrasive material, then one should re-season
the wok.

Stainless steel woks sometimes stick when used to cook omelettes or
for stir-frying meats. To overcome this problem, one can spend five
minutes to "season" the wok before use or spray a coating of lecithin
on the surface of the wok to allow for easy gliding of the foods.
Lecithin is sold commercially under several brand names as
"non-stick" cooking aids.

