Title: MEL'S SALSAS
Categories: Sauces, Marinade, Mexican, Tex-mex, Unformated
Yield: 4 Servings
-Melanie Miguel MJNT73C
UNFORMATED RECIPE
Salsa Fresca
Chipotle Salsa
Salsa
Salsa Yucateca
SALSA FRESCA (fresh salsa): 2 large ripe tomatoes, peeled & diced, 1/2
large sweet onion, diced, 1 or 2 small hot peppers, finely diced
(serrano, jalapeno, or arbol), juice from 1/2 of a key lime or lime
or lemon, 1/2 cup diced cilantro, salt to taste. Simply mix all of
the above together and use as you would any salsa. CHIPOTLE SALSA: 2
large ripe tomatoes; Simmer in a small amount of water for 3-4
minutes; peel, and place in a blender or food processor with; 1 or 2
chile chipotle from a can (these are smoked, pickled jalapenos in a
vinegar-tomato sauce), add a little of the sauce, too, if you want
more heat - be careful, these are quite hot! add to tomato and blend
6-7 seconds. Salt to taste. SALSA: On the open flame of a stove on a
grill, or on a non-stick griddle on high heat, lightly char: 2 large
very ripe tomatoes, 2 garlic cloves, 1 or 2 small hot peppers (chile
verde, jalapeno, serrano, arbol). Let the tomatoes cool a bit and
peel. Meanwhile, in a molcajete, mash the other ingredients together.
Add the tomato and mash that, too. You may have to transfer some to a
bowl. Put it into a small bowl and add 1/2 diced sweet onion, and 1/2
cup diced cilantro. Salt to taste.  If you don't have a molcajete, or
mortar & pestle, mash the ingredients with a fork instead. SALSA
YUCATECA: 1 chile habanero (there is no substitute!), charred as
above and mashed, the juice from one key lime (or lime), 2 Tbsp olive
oil, 1 garlic clove, roasted and mashed, salt to taste. Place the
ingredients in a small dish or bowl & mix together. Try this in
chicken soup! P.S. When roasting garlic, do it with the peel on.
Remove after roasting!

