Title: MISSOURI MIX
Categories: Mixes
Yield: 13 Servings
Missouri mix and recipes
Here is an all purpose baking mix that you can make up ahead of time
and store in quantity. It is always ready for adaptation to a
variety, of delicious, baked products. Mix saves time: The busy
homemaker can combine the dry ingredients and fat at one time for
seve to ten bakings. Few mixing utensils are needed for the recipes,
so that clean up time is shortened too. Mix saves money: This mix
made at home is one third cheaper per cup than a commercial mix. The
saving is actually greater since the mix already contains the
necessary milk as well as a higher percentage of fat. Because of the
highter fat content the homemade mix usually gives a more tender
product than most commercial mixes. Quick snacks: Quickly prepared
warm after school snacks are possible with minimum effort. School
children will want to make many of these recipes for themselves. Many
of these quick recipes can be a special treat for unexpected company
Variation of Liquids:Many of the folowing recipes call f! or fru it
Juices as the liquid since the dry milk solids are incorporated in
the mix. These fruit juices add variety as well as nutritive value.
Using Mix with your own recipe: Should you have a special recipe that
has not been adapted for use with the missouri mix, you may
substitute 1 1/2 cups of the mix for each cup of flour called for in
your recipe. The mix will contain the necessary baking powder, salt,
fat and milk. Storage:Store in tightly covered container. Mixture may
be measured into definite amounts, stored in plastic bags or jars and
be ready for speedy mixing of your favorite recipe, missouri mix made
with vegetable shortening may be stored at room remp for six weeks.
Mix made with lard should be refrigerated. Using oil: Pat Dwigans
Food Bulletin Board Special Contributor

:
Recipe By

