Title: MUSSELS MARINARA
Categories: Main dish, Italian, Seafood
Yield: 2 Servings
2 lb Mussels
2 lb Tomato
1/2 c  Red wine
Mushrooms
My own creation.  Clean 2lbs. mussels in H2O & lots of black pepper
for an hour & then drain. Clean beards off mussels. In a large pan,
saute garlic in 2 tbls of olive oil, slow heat. Add basil leaves,
Italian seasoning, red pepper flakes,  parsley,>> onions, mushrooms
and green pep- pers. Everything should be fresh,esp mushrooms & add
ingredientes to taste. I add a lot because I love full flavors. Saute
for 15 minutes and then add 2- 1 lb cans or larger, of peeled
tomatoes. Break the tomatoes with your hands & blend. Cover and
simmer for 1 hour, stirring frequently. Add 2 fresh, diced
tomatoesand cook for another 10-15 min longer. Add 1/4-1/2cup of dry
red wine &cook for another 10 minutes. Don't over-heat, don't dry up
the sauce. I love my sauces watery as you seem to. Adjust seasonings
to taste as you go.
Use freshly grated parmasan AND romano cheese for the top- ping &add
all on top of cooked pasta. Add fresh pepper- black &/or red. Serve
with a DARK green salad and serve with a slightly chilled Chianti red
wine. Add candle light and with Classical guitar in the background
makes quite an >>>>>>> evening.  I hope you can adjust the seasonings
to your lik- ing because that's how I cook-according to my taste.  I
get rave reviews for my cuisian so it can work. Enjoy!

