Title: NEW MEXICO CHILI
Categories: Chili
Yield: 1 Servings
-NEW MEXICAN CHILI
---------
Food & Wine Mag., March 85

1/3 C   corn oil 3 large onions, chopped 6 large garlic cloves,
minced 5 T mild ground chili, preferably New Mexican 1 tsp HOT ground
chili or Cayenne pepper (more for hotter) 2 T ground cumin 1 lb lean
pork, ground 5 lb boneless beef chuck, trimmed of fat, cubed
1/2"-3/4" 2 tsp oregano 2 1/2 t salt 1/2 tsp fresh ground black
pepper 28 oz Italian plum tomatoes, canned, with juice 24 oz good
amber beer (New Amsterdam, Dos Equis) 13 oz beef broth 2 bay leaves
34 oz kidney beans

In  a  large flame-proof casserole or crockpot, heat the oil. Add the
onions.   Cover and cook over moderate heat for 5 minutes. Uncover,
increase heat to moderately high and cook, stirring frequently, until
the onions begin to brown, 5 to  10 minutes.

Add the garlic and cook another 1 or 2 minutes, until fragrant. Add
the chili and cumin.  Cook, stirring, 1 minute then add the pork,
mashing and stirring, until the meat browns and begins to separate.

Add the beef, oregano, salt and pepper.  Increase heat to high and
cook, stirring frequently, until the meat loses most of its redness,
about 10 - 15 minutes.

Add the tomatoes and their liquid, the beer, beef broth and bay
leaves. Bring to a boil, partially cover and reduce heat to moderate.
Cook until the beef is very tender and the sauce is reduced to a
chili-like consistency, about 1 1/2 to 2 hours.

In  a  medium saucepan, heat the beans in the liquid from the cans.

Drain when hot and either add to the chili or serve on the side along
with other accompaniments such as steamed rice, sour cream, grated
cheddar cheese, thinly sliced scallions, onions, or chips.

Serves 10 Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.40

