Title: BLOOMING ONION
Categories: Yummy, Spicy
Yield: 1 Serving  1 sweet onion (texas , vidalia, walla walla or maui) water 1 egg,
beaten 1 cup cracker crumbs or coating mix 2 tablespoons flour oil
for deep frying

THE DIP

1/2 cup mayonnaise 1/2 cup sour cream 1/2 cup thousand island
dressing 2 tablespoons horseradish

select a well rounded onion.  peel out skin off. leave root intact;
cut off any hanging roots.  using a small, sharp knife, divide onion
into four sections by making 2 cuts crosswise, beginning at the top
and cutting toward the root, stopping about 1/2 inch away. cut each
section twice. Place onion in bowl of enough boiling water to cover
it and leave it for 5 minutes. the sections, or "petals" will begin
to open. remove onion from hot water and immerse into ice waaer, to
help the opening. drain well by turning upside down on paper towel.
Put flour into paper bag, add onion and shake gently to coat with
flour.  roll floured onion in beaten egg to cover.  Put cracker
crumbs or coating mix in paper bag, add onion and shake gently to
coat. refrigerate for 1 hour before deep frying in oil to golden
brown.  3 to 5 mintues.  cooked onion may be kept for a time in warm
oven. the "outback Steakhouse" serves this with a delicious hot-hot
sauce to dunk in. they also add hot spices to the flour and/or
coating mix.

Typos by Kath and Stu Pickell
http://www.cyberspc.mb.ca/~pickell/recipe.html

