Title: COTES DE VEAU FLAMBES (FLAMED VEAL CHOPS)
Categories: French, Veal, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
Text Only
By now, the only thing left of the side of veal is the chops, though
fortunately you should have some left-over veal stock (it can be
frozen as ice-cubes). Here is a very simple, low-fat recipe from
Larousse Light French Cooking (McGraw-Hill.  1981) which is
unfortunately long out of print.

Beat together one egg yolk with half a tablespoonful of evaporated
skim milk.

Slice 375 g of mushrooms.  Measure out 30 ml of brandy or whisky.
Juice half a lemon.  Have ready about 4 tablespoons of veal stock.
Chop 2 tablespoons of parsley. Trim any fat From 6 veal chops and rub
it over a large non-stick pan with a lid.  If there is no fat, brush
on a little olive oil.

Heat the pan and brown the chops on both sides, then add the stock.
Meanwhile heat the cognac in a small saucepan, ignite it and pour it
over the chops.  Add the mushrooms, season with salt and pepper and
cover.

Cook just until the mushrooms have exuded their juices. Remove the
chops to a warm serving dish.

Reduce the cooking juices a little, then add a spoonful or two of the
juices to the egg yolk mixture, stirring. Remove the frying pan from
the heat and tip the egg yolk mixture into it, stirring. Return the
pan to a very gentle heat and stir until the sauce thickens. It must
not boil or it will curdle.  Add a dash of lemon juice and parsley,
correct seasoning and spoon sauce over the chops.

Larousse advises serving the chops with any dish of zucchini.

From the Sydney Morning Herald, 10/27/92.  Courtesy Mark Herron.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 17 1992.

