Title: CANNED FOODS FOR SPECIAL DIETS
Categories: Canning, Information
Yield: 1 Servings  The cost of commercially canned special diet food often prompts
interest in preparing these products at home. Some low-sugar and
low-salt foods may be easily and safely canned at home. However the
color, flavor and texture of these foods may be different than
expected and be less acceptable.

CANNING WITHOUT SUGAR

In canning regular fruits without sugar, it is very important to
select fully ripe but firm fruits of the best quality. Prepare these
as described for hot-packs for each fruit, but use water or regular
unsweetened fruit juices instead of sugar syrup. (For more
information see additional publications for individual fruits.) Juice
made from the fruit being canned is best. Blends of unsweetened
apple, pineapple, and white grape juice are also good for filling
over solid fruit pieces. Adjust headspaces and lids and use the
processing recommendations given for regular fruits. Add sugar
substitutes, if desired, when serving.

CANNING WITHOUT SALT (REDUCED SODIUM)

To can tomatoes, vegetables, meats, poultry, and seafood, follow the
normal procedures for canning, but omit the salt. In these products,
salt seasons the food but is not necessary to ensure its safety. Add
salt substitutes, if desired, when serving.

======================================================= === * USDA
Agriculture Information Bulletin No. 539 (rev. 1994) * Meal-Master
format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

