Title: CARAMEL RUM DELIRIUM ICE CREAM CAKE * PART 3
Categories: Cakes, Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM--------------------DIRECTIONS CONTINUE-------------------------
To assemble the cake, remove the bottom of the sprinform pan from the
cake. Keep the cake on a 10-inch plate while thoroughly washing,
drying, and reassembling the springform pan. Slice the    cak
horizontally into 3 equal layers. Place the bottom layer in the
springform pan, portion half the ice cream on top of the cake layer,
and spread the ice cream evenly over the cake. Place the center
section of the cake on top of the layer of ice cream. Portion
remaining ice cream over the cake and spread evenly. Place the top
portion of the cake on top of the ice cream layer and gently press
down on the cake. Cover the sprinform pan with film wrap and freeze
the cake for at least 12 hours. When the cake has been in the freezer
for 12 hours, prepare the ganache. To remove the cake from the
springform pan, first remove the film wrap. Wrap a damp, hot towel
around the sides of the pan (the towel should be large enough to
completely wrap around and cover the sides of the pan). Hold the
towel tightly around the pan for 1 minute, then release the sprinform
and remove th cake. Return the cake to the freezer for 30 minutes.
Remove the cake from the freezer. Pour the ganach over the cake and
use a cake spatula to create an e ve coating of ganache on both the
top and sides of the cake. Return the cake to the freezer for at
least 15 to 20 minutes. To serve, cut the cake with a serrated
slicer. Heat the blade of the slicer under hot running water before
making each slice. Hold the slices at room temperature for 5 to 7
minutes before serving Source: Death By Chocolate Cookbook by Marcel
Desaulniers

