Title: Almond Milk
Categories: Medieval, Condiments
Yield: 1 servings  Vurst nim of alemauns, & hwyte of heom one pertie, ah hwyte summe
hole & the other do to grinden.  Sothen nim the hole alemauns & corf
heom to quartes; sothen nim fat broth & swete of porc other of vthur
vlehs; tempre thin alemauns & sothen drauh out thi milke & sothe do
hit in an veyre crouhe...

Ground almonds Water, stock, wine or other liquid Rice flour or
cornflour Salt

You can make thin or thick almond milk, as suits your dish, by
adapting the quantity of almonds to the amount of liquid in your
recipe. In either case your object is to produce a liquid or puree as
smooth as possible. The method is the same.

First pulverise the almonds in a blender (not a food processor) or in
a coffee or nut mill.  Put them in a bowl and pour on enough boiling
liquid to make a smooth cream.  Leave to stand for 10-15 minutes,
then rub the mixture through a metal sieve.

This mixture may be smooth enough.  If not, cream a little rice flour
or cornflour with it and heat until it thickens slightly.  Then add
any extra liquid the recipe calls for, and a scrap of salt.

I find that 125 g/4 oz almonds and 1 tablespoon rice flour moistened
with 275 ml/10 fl oz/ 1 1/4 cups liquid produces a 'milk' suitable
for most purposes.

Almond milk might be used whenever a flavoured liquid base without
meat products, cow's milk, cream or eggs was needed.  It could also
be used as a thickener--or just for its aroma and flavour.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 3, "Life in the
Cloister" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham
Date: 05-24-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

