Title: FOCACCIA 2
Categories: Breads
Yield: 35 servings
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
1 1/2 ts Salt
3 tb Olive oil
1 pk Active dry yeast
2 c  Warm water
5 1/2 c  Flour
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPINGS-------------------------------
Fresh sage,rosemary+thyme
Olive oil
Kosher or sea salt
Sprinkle yeast over 1 cup warm water in large mixer bowl. Stir
briefly, the let stand 5 minutes to dissolve. Attach paddle or dough
hook to mixer. At low speed,stir in 2 cups flour and salt, beat until
smooth.(1 minute) (Or combine ingredients in large bowl and beat
vigorously with wooden spoon 2 minutes)Add remaining 1 cup warm water
and oil and blend. Add enough flour, 1/2 cup at a time, to make a
soft dough that begins to pull away from sides of bowl On lightly
floured work surface, knead dough until smooth and elastic, 8-10
minutes. Place in large,lightly greased bowl, turning once to grease
top. Cover with kitchen towel and let rise in a warm, draft-free
place, until doubled in bulk,1-1 1/4 hours. Remove dough from bowl,
and gently knead one minute. Lightly oil a 15x10 1/2 inch jelly-roll
pan. Shape dough into 12x8 inch rectangle with rolling pin. Carefully
transfer to prepared pan, stretching to gently to edges of pan with
fingers. Press top of dough with fingertips, leaving 1/2 inch deep
indentations. Cover and let rise 30 minutes. Preheat oven to 425 F.
Adjust 1 oven rack to lowest position. Place shallow baking pan on
top rack of oven. If using a baking stone, place in cold oven and
preheat 30 minutes before baking. Press dough again with fingers, and
brush with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Sprinkle with 1 teaspoon kosher
salt and 2 tablespoons chopped assorted fresh herbs or 1 teaspoon
dried herbs. Just before baking, carefully place 1 cup ice cubes in
baking pan on top oven rack and immediately place dough on baking
stone, or lowest oven rack. Bake 20-30 minutes, until top is golden
and bottom sounds hollow when removed from pan and tapped on bottom.
Remove Focaccia from pan and transfer to wire rack. While still warm,
brush top with another 2 tablespoons olive oil. Cool. Cut into 5x1
1/2 inch pieces. Makes 35
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   03-30-95

