Title: Green Pea Pottage
Categories: Medieval, Vegetables, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings  Perrey of pesoun.  Take pesoun and seeth hem fast, and couere hem,
til thei berst; thenne take hem vp and cole hem thurgh a cloth.  Take
oynouns and mynce hem, and seeth hem in the same sewe, and oile
therwith; cast therto sugur, salt, and safroun, and seeth hem wel
therafter, and serue hem forth.

1.1 litres/2 pints/5 cups water 700 g/1 1/2 lb garden peas, shelled
350 g/12 oz onions, peeled and finely chopped 1 1/2 tablespoons oil
1/4 teaspoon pulverised dried saffron strands, steeped in 4
tablespoons boiling water (optional) 1-1 1/2 teaspoons soft light
brown sugar 1 teaspoon sea salt or to taste

This vegetable puree was probably most often served in Lent when the
last dried white peas of the winter store were being used; this is a
fair guess because onions were used to flavour and saffron to colour
the dish. However, it could also be made in summer, using fresh green
peas, although more floury than ours.  (Using modern green peas, the
saffron can be omitted.)

Bring the water to the boil and tip in the peas.  Add the chopped
onions and the soaked saffron if used.  Cook gently until the peas
are quite soft. Sieve both the liquid and solids into a clean pan, or
puree them together in batches in an electric blender.  Return the
puree to the pan, and simmer for 6-7 minutes or until the soup is the
consistency you want; season before serving.  Remember that, in the
Middle Ages, the thicker a puree was, the better its quality was
thought to be.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 5, "Of Manners and
Meals" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham Date:
05-26-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

