Title: Hanukkah Pudding In Wine Sauce
Categories: Desserts, Puddings
Yield: 12 servings
============================
-==
HANUKKAH PUDDING IN WINE
-SAUCE
A real production, the pudding is usually made a month in advance so
it'll have time to deepen in color and flavor. 1/2 c Margarine 1/2 c
Soft Brown Sugar 1 c All-Purpose Flour pn EACH: Salt, Nutmeg and
Mixed Spices 2 ea Eggs; beaten 1 ea Orange; grated rind and juice 1
ea Lemon; grated rind and juice 2 tb Brandy 4 tb Guinness or any
other Stout 1 sm Apple; peeled; cored; grated 4 c Fresh White
Breadcrumbs 2 oz Almonds or Walnut Pieces; blanched; chopped 2 oz Cut
Mixed Peel 1/2 lb Currants 6 oz Sultana Raisins 4 oz Raisins SAUCE: 2
ea Egg Yolk 1/4 c Fine Granulated Sugar 1 t Cornstarch 1 c Kosher Red
Wine or Israeli Hock 1 tb Brandy or Cointreau The puding may be
steamed or boiled. If the puding is to be boiled, stand it on a
trivetto lift it slightly off the bottom of the the pan and use
enough boiling water to come one-third of the way up the basin. In
both cases, the pan lid must be a tight fit and the water must never
stop boiling. If more water must be added make sure it is already
boiling. Melt the maragarine and sugar together over low heat. Sift
the flour with the salt and spices. Now put all the ingredients into
a large bowl and mix thoroughly. Divide the mixture between two
greased quart pudding basins. Cover the top with a double thickness
of waxed paper and then with a layer of foil. Steam or boil the
puddings for 6 hours or cook in a pressure cooker according to the
makers directions. Remove from water, cool, take off the paper and
foil lids aand cover with fresh foil. Store in a cool, dry cupboard.
The puddings will keep several months. On the day the pudding's to be
eaten, <<***** Continued Next Message *****>> ++- * VbReader 2.22
#549 * A great many family trees were started by grafting. ++-
QScan/PCB v1.15b / 01-0348 * Origin: FidoNet: CRS Online, Toronto,
Ontario (1:229/15) From: SAM LEFKOWITZ Date: 04-14-95 Subject: Jewish
Rye Bread (1/2)
======================================================================
==== ==== <<***** Split Message. Part 1 Of 2 *****>> <** On 04-14-95,
WALTER HANIG said to SAM LEFKOWITZ: **> WH> When I was a lad, visiting
grandparents in the Bronx, we often had WH> board. It was a flat yeast
bread, much like a thin-crust pizza doug WH> covered with onions. The
bread was mostly crunchy, but slightly che WH> the thicker parts. The
onions were slightly chewy and chopped rathe WH> than sliced. The
onions were more cooked than usually found on a bi WH> The onion
board was not at all like a pizzaladiere. WH> WH> The whole thing was
sold in sheets about 12"x18", though childhood WH> memories often
play tricks with dimensions. Your description reminds me of a bread I
used to buy at the supermarket here in Toronto. It specialized in
Mid-East/ European breads. The bread I bought was Persian/Iranian
type of flat bread which measured about 18" X 10" and had some ridges
running around it's elongated oval shape. It had lots of chunky
onions. It's texture was sort of like a onion roll but a little more
moist. I don't have a recipe for it but I will keep an eye open for
one. Sorry. I'm including a recipe I have which I realize doesn't
quite fit the criteria you suggest but it's ingredients and methods
may give some hints. It is similar to the pissaladiere you say isn't
really what you're looking for. -Begin Recipe Export-

