Title: Piment
Categories: Medieval, Beverages
Yield: 12 servings  Pur fait ypocras.  Troys vnces de canell & iii vnces gyngeuer;
spykenard de Spayn, le pays dun denerer; garyngale, clowes gylofre,
poeure long, noiey mugadey, mayioyame, cardemonii, de chescun i
quarter donce; grayne de paradys, flour de queynel, de chescun dm.
vnce; de tout soit fait powdour &c.

2 litres/3 1/2 pints/8 1/4 cups red wine 175 g/6 oz white sugar 1
tablespoon ground cinnamon 3/4 tablespoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon
each ground cloves, grated nutmeg, marjoram (fresh if possible),
ground cardamom, ground black pepper and a pinch of grated galingale
(if available)

I have called this a piment--a general name for sweetened spiced
wines-- rather than hypocras because the long pepper (poeure long)
and the grains of paradise (grayne de paradis) in the old recipe are
virtually unobtainable today.  So is Spikenard (spykenard).

Warm the wine until just beginning to steam.  Add the sugar and allow
to dissolve.  Mix all the spices and herbs together.  Stir half this
mixture into the wine, then taste and slowly add more until you
achieve a flavour you like (you will probably need most or all of the
mixture). Simmer your 'mix' very gently for 10 minutes.  Strain
through a jelly bag (which may take some hours).  Bottle when cold,
then cork securely. Use within 1 week.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 7, "Courtly and
Christmas Feasting" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany
Hall-Graham Date: 05-27-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

