Title: The Art of Smoking - Part 5 - Fish
Categories: Information, Fish, Bbq/grill, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------BRINE CURE - HOT SMOKING-----------------------
These instructions may be applied to all kinds of fish. Cleaning:
Remove exterior slime and scales.  With catfish, bullheads and other
fish that have no scales, remove the slime, but leave the skin on..
With most fish, cut the belly open, remove guts and throroughly clean
the body cavity. Small fish may be gibbed. Trimming and Cutting: For
small fish that are to be smoked in the round, leave fins and tails
on, and the head, too, for convenience in handling and hanging up.
For a big fish, cut off the fins and tail.  If it is to be cut in
halves, fillets or chunks, remove the head. If the fish is to be
split, lay it on one side, start at the head and, with the knife
scraping the top of the backbone, cut it in half. For small and
medium-sized fish, leave a strip of back or belly skin intact,
holding the halves together. Then, after smoking, the halves can be
folded back into their original position to look like a whole fish
for serving. For bigger fish, separate the halves.  Make another
lengthwise cut just under the backbone, and remove the bone. Then cut
the halves lengthwise into fillets or crosswise into chunks for
processing. Brining: Put the fish or pieces in the Basic Fish Brine,
preferably at a fairly cool temperature. In very hot weather, keep
the brine cool by haning in it a plastic bag of ice cubes.  Put a
plate or some other flat object on top of the fish to keep it
submerged.  Leave it for a time proportional to its weight. In
brining of more than 2 hours, overhaul once. Rinsing, Drying: Take
the fish from the brine and rinse BRIEFLY in fresh water. Hang it up
or lay it on racks to dry in a cool, airy place, screened from flies,
while the pellicle forms.  Omitting the procedure will produce the
harmless phenomenon of a white liquid oozing from the surface. This
is not in any way harmful or unpleasant.  It is a mixture of tasty,
nutritious protein substances that normally form the pellicle.  Do
not try to remove this secretion. Simply let it solidify on the
surface of the fish. This will necessitate a longer period of
smoking, since the oven then has to draw more moisture out of the
fish. Smoking Times and Temperatures: Cold Smoking - not above 85 F -
is generally favored for fish that are to be preserved for a long
time. A preliminary period of cold-smoking may also be given, to
impart a stronger smoke flavor to fish that are later to be
hot-smoked. Hot Smoking - between 85 and 250 F - is in effect a
cooking process. Hot-smoked fish are usually intended to be eaten
immediately or, at most, to be kept for 2 or 3 weeks under
refrigeration. Fish that are to be canned should be given a fairly
brief smoking, just enough to give the desired flavor and color.
Canning seems to intensify the smoke flavor, and anyway, the cooking
will be completed during the canning and sterilization process. A
good variant flavor may be obtained by sprinkling pepper on the fish
immediately before it is put into the smoker. >>> Continued to next
message ++- * SLMR 2.0 * ++- WILDMAIL!/WC v4.10 * Origin: Glen Burnie
Windows BBS, Md. (410)969-1914 (1:261/1165.0) From: EARL SHELSBY
Date: 04-21-95 Subject: Watergate Anything
======================================================================
==== ==== Hello Newt: NG>I've been lurking in this conference for
some time and enjoying it, but NG>I'm just wondering if someone may
have some Watergate recipes they may NG>want to share, Watergate Pie,
in particular. A friend called last night NG>wanting to know if I
knew anything about it and I wasn't able to help NG>her, hope someone
out there may be able to....Thanks for the tolerance Sorry, no
Watergate pie, but here's what I have: -Begin Recipe Export- QuikBook
version 0.96 Beta A

