Title: EASY ROASTED CHICKEN
Categories: Main
Yield: 1 Servings
SEE DIRECTIONS:
Although this REAL BBQ it is an easy way to cook a whole chicken on a
gas grill!

And you thought gas grills were for those fat, white legged guys you
see in the neighborhood every Sunday burning steak. This recipe is so
simple that I always wonder why those "Famous" TV cooks have not
demonstrated it.

I call it Easy Roasted Chicken.

Split a whole 3 pound chicken by cutting up the middle of the breast
bone. Press the chicken flat, and rub both sides, plus under the skin
around the breast, with the following concoction:

*  6 tablespoons onion powder * 3 tablespoons sugar * 3 tablespoons
garlic powder * 4 teaspoons dried thyme flakes * 4 teaspoons ground
cinnamon * 3 tablespoons ground allspice * 2 teaspoons ground nutmeg
* 3 tablespoons fresh-ground pepper * 1 dried habanero chile, chopped
fine or 2 tablespoons hot pepper sauce (optional)

Mix the spices thoroughly in a bowl. Store remainder in a covered jar
in a cool pantry.

Light both sides of your gas grill and leave them on high for ten
minutes or until the lava rocks are hot. Shut off one side of the
grill and turn the other side to its lowest setting. Place the
chicken, skin side up, on the off side of the grill. Close the cover
and let it cook for 45 minutes. Raise the cover and turn the chicken
90 degrees, close the cover and finish cooking for another 45
minutes. Test the thigh for doneness with an instant reading meat
thermometer. About 180 degrees is okay or pull the wing, it should
come off easily. Remove the chicken from the grill and let it rest
for at least ten minutes before slicing.

: Dave Frary
Recipe By

