Title: Besty Bumgarner's Yorkshire Pudding
Categories: Bread, Meat, Pudding, British
Yield: 6 servings
3    Eggs
1 c  Milk
1 c  Sifted flour
1/4 ts Salt
First, brown and bake your roast beef on a wire rack in a roasting
pan. You will need the grease to (A) make brown gravy to pour over
the finished pudding and (B) to make the actual pudding itself.

Sift flour and salt together.  Beat eggs until light, then add the
sifted ingredients, mixing well.  Add milk gradually and beat 2
minutes with rotary beater.

About 30 minutes before the roast is done, pour off enough drippings
to make your gravy and leave the rest in the bottom of the roasting
pan (a baster works well for this), then pour the batter mixture you
have made into the roasting pan on top of the grease in a layer about
1/2 inch thick. Bake at 400 degrees.

Make your brown gravy out of the dippings you have reserved and pour
some on each piece of pudding as it is served.

My grandmother, Betsy Scattergood Bumgarner, was from Pilsly,
England, and immigrated to the U.S. when she was a young girl.  She
had 14 children, 13 of whom survived to adulthood.  My mother was the
youngest.  Grandmother Bumgarner died when my mother, Dorothy Betsy
Bumgarner Cloyd, was 18, long before I was born.  Mom always said
that she thought of her mother every time she made Yorkshire pudding.
Now that my mother is no longer with us, I can't get any more
details.  In fact, only one the 14 kids is alive, now. That's my Aunt
Estella Watts.  I took this recipe from the Recipe Book of Bumgarner
Family Favorites (The one printed in memory of my Aunt Evelyn, who
died in 1991).  If the recipe seems a little vague or confusing, its
because it was submitted by Aunt Stella, who is a bit that way,
herself.

Posted by Bud Cloyd
Submitted By BUD CLOYD   On   12-17-94

