Title: Cranberry Stir Ins & Garnishes
Categories: Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%% SAVORIES  %%%%%
HOLIDAY RICE: Stir fresh whole cranberries into wild rice about 5
minutes before rice is finished cooking. FESTIVE SALAD: Sliver a few
fresh whole cranberries and toss with salad greens, toasted pecan
halves and an herbed vinaigrette. SASSY STUFFING: Quarter fresh
cranberries and stir into your favorite sausage stuffing. STILTON
TARTS: Place a small piece of Stilton in mini frozen tart shells.
When baked, place a little cranberry sauce on top. PRETTY PATE: To
your favorite store bought pate with a wreath of fresh cranberries.
Cut tiny leaves from green peppers and garnish. %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%% SWEETS %%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% CHRISTMAS MORNING MUFFINS:
Add 1/2 cup sliced cranberries and 1/2 cup coarsely chopped pecans to
bran muffin mix before baking. TEATIME SCONES: Make scone recipe as
per pkg of Tea Bisk mix.  Add 1/2 cup halved cranberries and bake.
THIMBLE COOKIES: Use cranberry jelly in place of strawberry jam to
fill thimble cookies. GLAZED CHRISTMAS CHEESECAKE: Heat1 cup jellied
cranberry or cranberry sauce with 2-4 tbsp rum. Pour over cheesecake.
FROSTED BERRIES: Dip whole berries in beaten egg white, then roll in
granulated sugar.  Use as a decoration around the Christmas turkey.
Origin: Chatelaine Magazine, December 1989. Shared by: Sharon
Stevens, Dec/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   12-19-94

