Title: Diwali Delights: a Taste of India [Hindu Festival]
Categories: Side dish, Indian
Yield: 4 servings
No Ingredients Found
Imagine sitting down to a huge feast of more than 600 sweet and savory
delights. Sound impossible? The Swaminarayan Hindu Mission

congregation, more precisely the women's chapter, is hard at work
preparing that many dishes for a Diwali feast Sunday afternoon.
Featured below are some of the more popular recipes. Spices, chiles
and ghee can be obtained from East Indian grocery stores. DHOKLA
~~~~~~ This lentil-based snack packs a punch and looks great arranged
on a plate with khandvi and spicey chutney (see below). Mustard seeds
sprinkled on top add flavor. 2 c moong dal (lentils) 1 c gram daal
(lentils) 1/2 ts tumeric powder x salt to taste 1 1/2 ts ground
chiles 1 1/2 ts ground ginger 1/2 ts baking soda 1 tb oil 1/2 ts
mustard seeds 1/4 c unsweetened coconut 1/4 c chopped fresh coriander
1 ea sweet red pepper; sliced COVER lentils with water and soak 8
hours. Drain and blend in food processor until smooth. Mix in
tumeric, salt, chiles ginger and baking soda. GREASE inside of the
top part of a double boiler. Pour in batter. Add water to to the
bottom part of the boiler and cook, covered, over medium heat about 5
minutes or until it reaches a sponge-like consistency. It's ready
when a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Let cool and
then cut into diamonds. HEAT oil in a small pan, add mustard seeds
and cook on  amedium heat until they pop. Sprinkle seeds over the
dhokla. GARNISH with coconut, coriander and sliced red peppers.
SERVES 6-8. KHANDVI ~~~~~~~ 1 c gram (lentil) flower 1 1/2 c plain
yogurt 1 c water x salt to taste MIX all ingredients. The batter will
be quite liquidy. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until
it thickens into a thin paste. SPREAD immediately in thin layers in
several greased pans. Allow to cool. CUT into strips 1 1/2-inches
wide and roll up. GARNISH with coconut, coriander and red pepper as
above. SERVES 6-8. CHUTNEY ~~~~~~~ 1 bn fresh coriander 6 ea green
chile peppers (use rubber gloves when handling) 1/2 ts salt 1/4 c
water 1/2 ts lemon juice 1 ts sugar BLEND all ingredients. Serve with
dhokla and khandvi. SERVES 6-8. MAGAJ ~~~~~ Most definitely for the
sweet tooth, this easy recipe will be a hit on any dessert table. 1/2
c ghee (clarified butter) or oil 1 1/2 c gram flour 1 tb milk 1/2 c
sugar 1/4 c ground almonds 1 ts cardamom powder 1 ts ground
pistachios MELT the ghee on medium heat. Add flour and stir until
golden brown. Remove from heat and add milk, sugar and half the
almonds. Mix well. GREASE a cookie sheet and spread mixture evenly
with a spatula. GARNISH with cardamom, pistachios and remaining
almonds. Let cool and cut unto squares. SERVES 4. Article by Rashida
Dhooma for the Toronto Sun 11/2/94 Posted by S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   11-02-94

