Title: Fat-Free Pizza
Categories: Vegetarian, Pizza
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
1) Don't use oil in the pizza dough (garlic dough recipe attached). 2)
Don't spread oil on top of the rolled dough as a moisture barrier

++ instead, pre-cook veggies and drain them very well, and use chunky
sauces that are not too liquid. This will keep the crust from getting
soggy. The use of a pizza stone is also highly recommended for a crisp
crust. 3) Use only fatfree cheeses, although the use of tiny amounts
of freshly-grated Parmesan (not the cardboard stuff in the can that
requires tons of it for any flavor at all) is not bad. 4) Use sauces
that don't have any oil. One of my quick-and-dirty sauces is to take
a jar of Millina's Finest Garlic Garlic Pasta Sauce (fatfree), add
some canned chopped tomatoes, a small handful of basil, some oregano
and thyme and black pepper, and a splash of balsamic vinegar. Then I
cook it down or strain it to make it less runny. 5) Choose toppings
that are fatfree, and be creative. This means no meat (although I
have made faux pepperoni using seitan and it wasn't actively bad,
just boring), but you can make pizza using fatfree refried beans, or
artichoke hearts and red onion, or spinach and yellow onion, or....
The possibilities are endless. Here's the recipe for the garlic pizza
dough. I make a double recipe of this in my bread machine, halve it,
and freeze the two halves. Pizza dough is much easier to work when it
is cold, so it doesn't take long to thaw and be workable. Oh, another
hint. Fatfree cheeses tend to not melt (they stay rubbery) and not
brown. To solve the former problem, put the cheese (I use fatfree
mozarella) directly on the crust, then put the other toppings on and
cover it all with the sauce. Then cook in a 450 - 500 degree F oven
on a preheated pizza stone and the cheese will melt. Last hint: Be
sure to use enough cornmeal on your pizza peel and stone. Last night
my wife was doing the rolling out of the dough, and she didn't use
enough. When I tried to briskly slide the pizza off the peel onto the
stone as usual, it stuck to the peel and about 1/4 of the toppings
and sauce went flying against the rear wall of the oven and down to
the bottom of the oven. Yech! I'm reading news now as a
procrastination measure against cleaning the oven. :-( Basic Garlic
Thin Crust Pizza Dough ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Recipe By:
Donna Rathmell German in "The Best Pizza is made at home" Serving
Size: 1    Preparation Time :2:00 1 teaspoon active dry yeast 2 cups
bread flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 3 cloves fresh garlic ++ minced
:
or pressed 2/3 cup lukewarm water ++ plus 1 tablespoon [The original
author's general directions for pizza dough-making are quite lengthy
and explicit; I include here only a portion of the general directions
for bread machines and for making dough by hand. Her directions are
more detailed, and include specific instructions for using dough
makers, food processors, and heavy-duty mixers with dough hooks. I
highly recommend the cookbook for any pizza-lover!] If using a bread
machine, add the ingredients in the order specified for your
particular machine. If your machine has a double kneading cycle,
remove the dough after an hour of rising and turn off your machine;
allowing the dough to knead a second time causes bubbles which are
difficult to roll. If making by hand, proof the yeast in 1/4 to 1/3
of the water with a pinch of sugar. Then add the remaining liquid
ingredients, mix well, then add the dry ingredients and stir until
you can no longer work the dough with a spoon. Turn the dough out
onto a well-floured counter, knead for 5 to 10 minutes, and allow to
rise covered in a warm place for 50 to 60 minutes. For a thin-crust
pizza, roll the dough out 1/8 inch thick; slightly thicker at the
edges. Turn the edges up slightly to prevent run-off in the oven, and
place toppings no closer than 1/4 inch to the edge of the dough,
preferably no closer than 1/2 inch. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
~ Serving Ideas : Form extra dough into breadsticks and bake
alongside pizza NOTES : (adapted by Curtis Jackson) Donna Rathmell
German sez: "For garlic lovers everywhere! Top with anything. I keep
a jar of minced garlic in the refrigerator for this dough, and use 2
heaping teaspoons." Curtis sez: "This is one place where I agree that
minced garlic from a jar works just fine, and I agree also with the 2
heaping teaspoons for this recipe. I make a double recipe using one 2
1/4 teaspoon standard packet of active dry yeast and doubling all
other ingredients. The double recipe works great on the Dough setting
of my 1-1/2 pound loaf Hitachi bread machine." SINGLE RECIPE MAKES
ENOUGH DOUGH FOR ONE 16-INCH THIN CRUST PIZZA

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-26-94

