Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Pies, Tarts And Pastries
Categories: Information, Pie/tart
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free By Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

Pies, Tarts and Pastries ************************

For many Americans, dessert is a piece of pie. Pies and tarts are
beautiful to behold, easy to prepare and a great way to take
advantage of every fresh fruit as it comes into season. With
delicious frozen fruit readily available, it is possible to make many
of these recipes all year long.

Pie Crusts: *********** Included in this chapter are the recipe and
detailed instructions for a tender and flaky Basic Pie Crust, that is
suitable for almost every pie, tart or tartlet you make. This basic
crust can be made with either butter or margarine and prepared very
quickly by hand or in a food processor. You will enjoy great success
with this crust if you follow the recipe exactly, measure accurately,
prepare the dough quickly, roll it out carefully and bake the crusts
on the lowest shelf in the preheated oven.

I have also included recipes for more specialized crusts and
instructions for working with puff pastry to form a number of
different sizes of free standing tart shells. During the spring and
summer months when fresh fruit is at its peak, I often use purchased
puff pastry as the base for some of the most delicate and wonderful
tarts imaginable. Once the tart shell is prepared, it is just a
matter of assembling the tart with its filling, using whichever fruit
is at its best.

Nutty-oat crust, made with oil and sweetened with amazake, is a
delicious textural treat with its cookie-like crispness, especially
when used in the no-egg custard pies. The special crust for
Linzertorte, an intengral part of this classic recipe, is presented
here in a healthier version. And the granola crust (a fruit-sweneted
version of the classic graham cracker crust) is perfect with
cheesecake or any other pie that needs a completely prebaked crust.

Whether you are making pies, tarts or tartlets, here are a few
important points to remember for rolling out and baking the basic pie
crust. Submitted By JANE KNOX   On   11-11-94

