Title: Lighter Latkes
Categories: Side dish, Jewish, Low-cal/fat, Holiday, Potato
Yield: 16 servings
No Ingredients Found
......................................................................

"Potato latkes (pancakes) are one of the miost popular food
associated with Chanukah. Traditionally they are fried in lots of
oil, both to commemorate the oil that lasted eight days and because
they are dekicious cooked this way. But the guilt associated with
these crispy treats encouraged me to find another way to make them
delicious."
.....................................................................
LIGHTER LATKES ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ [From: Nina Simonds. Made with less egg
yolks than usual, and baked instead of fried, these still taste
great.] 1 tb Vegetable Oil 1 sm Onion; peeled; cut into chunks 1 ea
Egg; whole 2 ea Egg Whites 1 1/2 lg Baking Potatoes (750g); peeled;
cut into chunks 1 ts Salt 1/4 ts Pepper (optional) 3 tb Cornflake
Crumbs, Matzo Meal or Breadcrumbs Brush 2 non-stick baking shields
with oil. Place onion pieces in food processor fitted with steel
knife and pulse on/off until finely grated. Add egg and egg whites;
process with onion. Add potato chunks; pulse on/off until potatoes
are finely grated. Add salt, pepper (if desired) and cornflake
crumbs, matzo meal or breadcrumbs. Spoon mixture on to greased baking
sheets: you will get about 16 pancakes. Flatten slightly with spoon.
Bake 10 minutes in pre-heated 450F oven. Turn over and bake 5 minutes
until brown and crispy. Serve at once. Makes 16 latkes. VARIATIONS:
"I serve them with yogurt cheese instead of sour cream to cut back on
the fat even further. (Place strainer lined with cheesecloth, coffee
filter or paper towel over bowl. Put yogurt in strainer. Cover with
plastic wrap. Allow to rest 3 hours to overnight in refrigerator.
Discard liquid in bowl. Spoon thickened yogurt into container. Cover
and use as required.) From: Article by Bonnie Stern in Toronto Star
23 November, 1994

