Title: Roux for Cajun Foods
Categories: Condiment, Cajun/creol
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
3/4 c  Oil vegetable
MMMMM-------------------------DIRECTIONS------------------------------
1 c  Flour White
Stir together over medium heat in a big heavy skillet till medium
brown. Add whatever chopped vegetables your recipe calls for and keep
on stirring till the vegetables are soft ++++ adding the vegetables
arrests the cooking temperature and will prevent the roux from
scorching. Stirring MUST continue the entire time without stopping.
You must have a roux to make good gumbo. The browning of the flour
takes away the raw pasty taste of white flour and gives it a
nut-like, roasted flavor that is so wonderfully Creole. Roux also
adds a degree of thickness and richness that sets gumbo a world apart
from ordinary soup. A roux is simply a mixture of flour and fat
cooked and stirred till its brown. Slowly heating the flour breaks up
the starch molecules and reduces its thickening power while giving it
a unique, scorchy flavor at the same time. The degree of doneness is
determined by the color, which gets darker the longer it is cooked.
every imaginable brown color comparison has been used to describe
roux (coffee, pecan, mahogany). The only thing that can go wrong with
roux is that you can let it burn. The secret is very simple ++ Keep
stirring until it's brown! And don't go for a very dark roux on your
first try. The next color beyond charcoal brown is burned black. Be
sure to add vegetables or warm water or remove the roux from the
skillet, as it will continue to brown even with the heat off........
From the files of Earl Shelsby.

Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   10-27-94

