Title: Yeast Biscuits
Categories: Bread, Breakfast
Yield: 1 servings
3 ts Baking powder
1 ts Salt
3 tb Sugar
2 c  Buttermilk
1 pk Yeast
5 c  Flour (plain)
1 ts Soda
3/4 c  Shortening
Dissolve yeast in 1/2 c warm water.  Sift dry ingredient together 1
or 2 times.  Pour into large bowl.  Cut in shortening.  Add
buttermilk and yeast, working only until well moistened. Refrigerate,
covered, and use as needed.  Make into biscuits and bake at 400
degrees for about 12 minutes.

Variations: To make cinnamon rolls, roll out in rectanble; sprinkle
with sugar, cinnamon and butter.   Roll up, starting at narrow end;
slice, bake and ice while hot with confectioners sugar and milk glaze.

NOTE: This makes about 35 regular sized biscuits.  Since there are
only two people in my household, I bake them on aluminum pie pans (a
pie pan will hold 7 or 8 biscuits) for about 5 minutes.  I let them
cool off and put them pie pan and all into a gallon Ziploc Freezer
Bag and then into the freezer.  When you are ready to eat them,
preheat the oven to 400 and bake the frozen biscuits about 10
minutes. (5 or 6 min. if you let them thaw first).  This way I get
fresh, home-baked biscuits whenever I want them in about the same
time I would have to cook those imitation biscuits you buy in the
dairy dept. of the supermarket. (I can't stand those!) I have also
frozen the same recipe made into cinnamon rolls putting 4 rolls per
pie pan. (Nancy)

SOURCE: Sunburst Samplings - compiled by The Sunburst Banks of
Mississippi Contributed by Delores Lane Typed for you by Nancy Coleman
Submitted By NANCY COLEMAN   On   12-05-94

