Title: Basics of Liqueur Making Part 3
Categories: Alcohol, Beverages, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------INFORMATION-----------------------------
Siphoning: Before the initial straining, most liqueurs have particles
of fruit or spices suspended throughout the liquid medium.  Careful
straining will eliminate these.  During aging, some liqueurs form a
layer of clear, particle-free liquid and a second, cloudy layer.
Attempts to strain this merely result in recombining the two layers,
producing a cloudy liquid. Siphoning is a much more efficient way to
solve this problem.

Use a piece of plastic tubing 20 to 24 inches long. (Carried by beer
and wine making stores.)  Place one end of the tube in the bottle of
liqueur so that the end of the tube is at a level 1/2 inch above the
sediment. Bend the tube and suck gently on the other end until the
liqueur fills the tube. With your finger over the end, place the tube
in the empty bottle and at the same time, raise the bottle of liqueur
so that the layer of sediment is 4 inches or so above the empty
bottle. Release your finger and the liqueur should start flowing from
full to empty bottle. To stop the flow, just lower the full bottle so
that the liquid levels in both are the same. When the clear liquid
has been siphoned off, discard the sediment.

Brand names:  As you follow the recipes of this collection you may
find that some of your favorite liqueurs seem to be missing.  For
instance, you will not see a recipe labeled 'Galliano' because that
is a brand name for a commercially prepared liqueur.  Legally, we may
not use these brand names for our liqueur counterparts, and so we
have invented our own names. The copy of Galliano is called Italian
Gold liqueur.

Some names, such as Amaretto and Irish Cream are not brand names, even
though we may associate them with one major producer.  For these

