Title: Braised Beef
Categories: Medieval, Main dish, Meats
Yield: 6 servings  Stwed Beeff.  Take faire Ribbes of ffresh beef.  And (if thou wilt)
roste hit til hit be nygh ynowe; then put hit in a faire possenet;
caste ther-to parcely and oynons mynced, reysons of corauns, powder
peper, canel, clowes, saundres, safferon, and salt; then caste
there-t- wyn and a litull vynegre; sette a lyd on the potte, and let
hit boile sokingly on a fair charcole til hit be ynogh; then lay the
fflesh, in disshes, and the sirippe there-vppon. And serve it forth.

900 g/2 lb boned and rolled beef ribs (braising joint) Dripping or
other fat for roasting 2 tablespoons chopped parsley 2 medium onions,
peeled and chopped 2 tablespoons currants 1 teaspoon whole black
peppercorns 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
3-4 juniper berries or 2 fresh bay leaves Pinch of pulverised dried
saffron strands (optional) 1 teaspoon sea salt 275 ml/10 fl oz/1 1/4
cups red wine 2 teaspoons red wine vinegar

This was a suitable carving joint for a beginner to tackle.

Pre-heat the oven to 190C/375F/Gas Mark 5.  Smear the beef with the
fat and roast it on a rack for 40 minutes.  Transfer it with its
drippings to a flameproof casserole or stewpan.  Cover it with the
parsley, onions, currants, spices and salt, and add the wine and
vinegar at the side of the pan.  Cover and cook gently for 45 minutes
on top of the stove or at 160C/325F/Gas Mark 3 in the oven for the
same time. Remove to a board for carving.  Strain the wine and juices
in the pan, and dribble a little 'sauce' over each helping.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 5, "Of Manners and
Meals" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham Date:
05-26-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

