Title: Cabbage Chowder
Categories: Medieval, Vegetables, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings  Caboches in potage.  Take caboches and quarter hem, and seeth hem in
gode broth with oynouns ymynced and the whyte of lekes yslyt and
ycorue smale. And do thereto safroun & salt, and force it with
powdour douce.

600 g/1 1/4 lb firm-hearted cabbage OR 700 g/1 1/2 lb open-hearted
cabbage or spring greens 225 g/8 oz onions, peeled and finely chopped
225 g/8 oz white part of leeks, thinly sliced into rings 1/8 teaspoon
dried saffron strands 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon each ground
coriander, cinnamon and sugar 850 ml/1 1/2 pints/3 1/4 cups chicken
or vegetable stock

The Goodman of Paris had quite a lot to say about cabbages, from the
small spring sprouts for salads to the frostbitten winter leaves;
only his recommendation to boil cabbages all morning is best ignored
when using modern vegetables.

If using a firm-hearted cabbage cut it into eight segments, and
remove the centre core.  If using an open-hearted cabbage or greens,
cut off the stalks and cut the leaves into strips.  Put into a large
pan with the prepared onions and leeks.  Stir the saffron, salt and
spices into the stock, adjusting the quantity of salt if required,
then pour the mixture over the vegetables.  Cook gently, covered, for
about 20 minutes or until segments of firm cabbage are tender.

This will make a main-course soup for supper if you add sippets of
toast and small strips of fried bacon--both well-known medieval
additions.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 4, "The Goodman of
Paris" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham Date:
05-26-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

