Title: Chives
Categories: Information, Herbs/spice
Yield: 1 servings
Text
CULTIVATION: ============ Chive is a perennial with small bulbs,
producing grass-like  cylindrical hollow dark green leaves. Bearing
in the summer an inflorescence  of pink or purple flowers.  Prefers
sunny, or partial shady location. Grow best in rich, moist and well
drained soil.

Take  offsets  or  divide bulb in autumn  or  spring. Sow seeds in
spring. Germination  time  is about 10 days, plant  matures in 80
days. They don't develop  into  husky specimens until the  second
year. Grows in zone 1-10. Remove  flowers for better flavor, and
divide and replant every 3-4 years. Transplant to 9 inches apart, and
water in dry spells.

Cut  leaves, leaving 2 inches for regrows. Pick flowers as they open.
Once the  flowers  appear  the leaves  become  much less flavorful.
Refrigerate chive  leaves in a sealed plastic bag  to retain
crispness for 7 days. Dry flowers  and  bulbs. Leaves cannot be dried
with any success, but may be quick frozen and stored.

CULINARY  USES:  ============== Fresh chopped chives  will make any
food a delight.  Sprinkle them on salads,  potatoes, cooked
vegetables, soups and chicken.  Chive  do  wonders for egg dishes, as
well as cottage, pot and other fre white cheeses. It also perks up
sour cream and yogurt.

A  mild  member  of the onion family,  chives  lend  just the right
accent anytime  raw  onions  might  be overpowering.  Always  add  at
the end of cooking.

Sprinkle  on food to stimulate the  appetite and help digestion. They
will also  help  counteract the fattiness of  some foods. To
reconstitute dried chives,  moist with salad dressing or lemon juice.
Chives freezes well but are poor when dried.

Use  the bulb sparingly. You can rub it around a salad bowl or fondue
dish to add flavor.

Use chives in place of raw onion in hamburgers for a milder flavor.

MEDICAL  USES: ============= Chives are said to stimulate the
appetite and relieve  high blood pressure . A few  crushed chive
bulbs added to boiling water,  then  allowed  to cool, can help  ease
a troublesome cough if the drink is sipped regularly.

Chives  are high in vitamin C and iron. The iron content is useful
against anemia.  In  order  to receive the  maximum  benefit, chives
must be eaten fresh.

The  sulfur compounds in chives  have antibiotic properties. Eating
chives seems   to  lower  blood  levels  of  low-density
lipoproteins, the bad cholesterol  that clings to artery walls. This
effect is attributed to the oils  in  each  plant. WARNING: ========
Generally regarded as safe, for healthy nonpregnant, nonnursing
adults. OTHER USES: =========== Many insects are  repelled by the
odor of chives, which appear to act as safe natural  pest repellents.
They keep the bugs away without poisoning people or pets. Grow chives
as a deterrent for aphids, apple scab and mildew. Submitted By BARRY
WEINSTEIN   On   03-14-95

