Title: Coriander
Categories: Information, Herbs/spice
Yield: 1 servings
Text
CULTIVATION:  ============  Coriander  is a  small  hardy annual.
Grows to about  3 feet in height. It has thin, pointed roots, and
white and reddish flowers.

Coriander  needs  full sun, rich, and light  soil.  Sow seeds in
autumn to overwinter  in  mild climates, or sow  in  early spring in
final position. Germination  time  is about 14 days, and  plant
matures in about 90 days. Grows  in  zone 3-10. Grow away from
fennel, which seems to suffer in its present.  Thin to 8 inches
apart. Coriander can be grown indoors, but many people find the scent
unpleasant in there home.

Pick  young  leaves anytime, and collect  seeds when brown but before
they drop. Dig up roots in autumn. Dry seeds, or store whole. Freeze
leaves, or place  the  stems  in  water and cover  with  plastic  bag
to retain their freshness.  The  leaves are know in their  own  right
as Cilantro, a tasty seasoning herb. To harvest Cilantro, cut the
small immature leaves for the best flavor.

CULINARY  USES: ============== The leaves and ripe seeds have two
distinct flavors. The seeds are warmly aromatic and indispensable in
tomato chutney and curries. They provide an excellent flavoring for
vegetables and soups, sauces  and  biscuits.  The leaves have  an
earthy pungency flavorand are delicious in salads, vegetable and
poultry dishes.

Cook  the stem with beans and soups.  Cook fresh roots as a
vegetable. The stem can also be added to curries or stews.

MEDICAL  USES: ============= Chew or infuse seeds  as a tea, this may
help digestive  problems  and  is  also  a  sedative.  Some  studies
indicate, coriander helps settle the stomach but its not as soothing
as other herbs. Coriander  might  not be the most potent  digestive
aid, but its taste is better.

For  an  infusion,  use 1 teaspoon of  bruised  seeds,  or 1/2
teaspoon of powder  per  cup of boiling water. Steep for  5  minutes
and drink up to 3 cups a day before or after a meal.

It  might  also  be  helpful  in  relieving  arthritis  pain.  If you
have arthritis,  try it and see if it  helps. One animal study showed
coriander can reduce blood sugar levels, hinting at possible value in
the management of diabetes.

The  herb also contains substances that  kill certain bacteria,
fungi, and insect  larvae, which attack meat. The same microorganisms
can cause human wound  infection. Sprinkle some coriander on  minor
cuts and scrapes after they have been thoroughly washed with soap and
water.

WARNING:  ========  Generally regarded as  safe,  for healthy
nonpregnant, nonnursing adults.

COSMETIC  USES: ============== The sweet scent  of coriander makes a
light lotion with a pleasing perfume.
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   03-14-95

