Title: Dandelion
Categories: Information, Herbs/spice
Yield: 1 servings
Text
CULTIVATION:  ============  Dandelion is a  low growing variable
perennial with deep tap roots, and yellow flowers on hollow stem.

Prefers  sunny  and  open location, and grows  in  any  soil. Sow
seeds in spring  to  early  autumn. Dandelion  will  self-seed
profusely. Flavor is improved  if you tie leaves together to  blanch
the hearts, or make a tent of  boards over them. Dandelions produced
by the seeds offered in catalogs are   somewhat  larger  and  more
succulent than those growing wild. Germination  time  is about 14
days, and plant matures in about 60 days. Grows in zone 3-10.

Harvest  before  flowers  open. Keep flowers  picked  off plants you
don't harvest. Grow as an annual to prevent bitterness developing in
the plants. Parts used are the leaves, flowers, and the roots.

CULINARY  USES:  ==============  In the  last  century  plants with
larger leaves have been developed as a autumn and spring vegetable,
these usually being blanched in the same way as endive.

The roots can be eaten raw in salads.

Dandelion  greens  are bitter. The secret is  to pick them in early
spring before  the yellow flowers appear. Look for  the ones that
grow in a shady spot. Bright sun makes them dark green, but very
bitter.

Leaves are high in vitamin A, and B, niacin and iron.

SPRING  SALAD : Cooked dandelion make a  tasty vegetable that is even
more beneficial  than  spinach. Thoroughly wash the  leaves and cook
in boiling water  for  5 minutes. Drain and discard  the  water. Cook
leaves again in salted  boiling  water  for a further  10  minutes.
Strain and serve with butter.

MEDICAL  USES:  =============  Researchers have  suggested  that a
natural occurring  compound  called  Lecithin may  help  prevent
cirrhosis of the liver.  Dandelion  contains  about 30.000  parts per
million of Lecithin, almost twice the amount found in soybeans, a
more widely known source.

Dandelions  are  also rich in Inulin,  a slow digested starch.
Inulin, and traditionally   dandelion,  are  sometimes  recommended
for people with diabetes who need to stabilize their blood sugar
swings.

Dandelion  may  enhance  the flow of  bile,  and improve such
condition as liver  congestion,  bile  duct  inflammation, hepatitis,
gallstone, and jaundice. It also has both diuretic and laxative
capabilities.

One  study showed, dandelion inhibits the growth of the fungus
responsible for  vaginal yeast infection. Add a couple  of handful of
dried leaves and flowers  to  the  bath water. Other  studies  showed
dandelion roots have anti-inflammatory   properties,  suggesting
possible value in treating arthritis.

WARNING:  ========  Generally regarded as  safe,  for healthy
nonpregnant, nonnursing adults.

OTHER  USES:  =========== Grind dried and  roasted  roots to make a
coffee substitute.  Flowers  are used in dandelion  wine, and leaves
in dandelion beer and tonic drinks.

COSMETIC  USES: ============== The latex in  the dandelion leaves are
rich in  emollient.  This  is  great for  facial  steams,  cleansing
milk, and moisturizer for all skins, especially good for dry sallow
skin. SKIN TONIC :  Crush  1  teaspoon  of fresh dandelion  leaves,
and add to one cup of boiling  water.  Let  stand for 1/2 hour,
strain and let cool. This will revitalize  the skin and improve the
circulation. The tonic can be stored in  a  sealed bottle in the
refrigerator for about 10 days without losing power.
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   03-14-95

