Title: Garlic
Categories: Information, Herbs/spice
Yield: 1 servings
Text
CULTIVATION:  ============ Garlic is a  perennial or biennial
sub-globular bulb consisting of 8-20 cloves surrounded by silky
pink-white skin.

Garlic  needs a sunny or partial shady  location. The soil should be
rich, moist,  and  well drained, but tolerates  also  poor soil. Take
offsets or divide  bulb  in autumn or spring. Plant  garlic cloves 1
1/2 inches deep. Sow  seeds in spring. Germination time is  about 7
days, and plant matures in  about  100  days. Grows in zone  1-10.
Transplant or thin to 9 inches apart.  Water  in dry spells and
enrich soil annually. Remove flowers for better flavor.

Pick  flowers as they open, and dig  up bulbs in late summer. Harvest
when the tops fall over, and dry the bulb in a cool and shady
location.

CULINARY  USES: ============== A strong flavoring for many dishes,
hot and cold.  Rub around a salad bowl to  subtly flavor salads, or
add 1-2 cloves to  dressings and marinades. Mash with butter  and
bake in a fresh loaf of bread.  Insert  sliced cloves into joints  of
meat before roasting. It can even be baked as a vegetable.

To make garlic oil, which can be used in small amounts on salads, or
saved for  medicinal purposes, blend 1 cup of peeled garlic cloves,
and 1 cup of olive  oil.  Pour into a labeled jar.  Let the garlic be
absorbed into the oil  for  a  week, but shake the jar  several times
a day. Strain out the garlic and keep the liquid cold in the
refrigerator.

To  get  the  most flavor from fresh  garlic,  you  must slice
through the clove,  releasing  the  odorous strongly flavored  oil
inside the skin. A clove  of  garlic is very nutritious.  Garlic
contains thiamine and trace minerals  such  as  calcium, magnesium,
iron, potassium, phosphorus, and zinc. 2-3 heads of garlic a day can
also stimulate your immune system.

MEDICAL  USES: ============= Garlic has the potential to treat and
prevent a  number  of cardiovascular diseases.  Research discovered
ingredients in garlic  that  thin the blood, so blood is  less likely
to clot, and it can also lower the cholesterol level.

Scientist  belive  that it is  the smelly sulfer-containing
ingredients in garlic  that work the magic. There  are still some
unresolved questions as to  whether  odorless  garlic is  effective.
Because many the therapeutic compounds  have  not  been found in
cooked or processed garlic. The best effect is obtained from fresh,
raw garlic.

There  are  even hints of a possible  link  between garlic and low
rate of stomach  and colorectal cancer. The typical  dosage from
studies is in the range  of  3-5 cloves per 120 pound of  body weight
per day. A drink made from a well crushed garlic clove simmered in
1/2 pint of milk for about 10 minutes  can  be sipped to relive a dry
hacking cough. Whole garlic bulbs contain a sustenance called Alliin,
when grounded or chewed, it turns into Allicin. Allicin inhibits or
totally destroys many types of bacteria and fungi,  including  the
microorganisms most  likely  to cause vaginal yeast infection.

WARNING:  ======== Eating garlic paste by the  jar could burn the
lining of the stomach and esophagus and even cause anemia.
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   03-14-95

