Title: How To Make Kosher Steam
Categories: Jewish
Yield: 1 servings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to Make Kosher Steam
Kosher steam? Well, in a manner of speaking, that is what some Israeli
engineers have achieved. One of them, Dov Zioni (hmmmm?) He works at
the Institute for Science and Halakhah, in Jerusalem. The institute's
purpose is to adapt contemporary technology to the prescriptive and
proscriptive laws of the Halakhah, the system of religious law.
Whatever steam there was in those ancient times was a waste
by-product of boiling water. But today's steam is purposely made to -
among other things that will not concern us here - keep food hot
after cooking and before serving in the hospital, restaurants and
other places.  Problem: if kosher foods on the same steam table as
include both  fleishig (meat) and milchig (dairy), the steam passing
over them impairs the KASHRUTH (kosherness) of both by contact. So -
how do the Halakhah and engineering ingenuity combine to make steam
PARVE - that is neither meat nor dairy? Quite simply: According to
the Halakah, only something that is food can contaminate food.  -
that is make it TREF (unkosher). And how does one determine what is
and what is not food? It is not food, says a maxim in the Halakhah,
if dogs won't eat it. Dov Zioni now has something to work with. By a
process of experimentation, he found that pine oil is offensive to
the canine palate. Since the dog won't eat it , it isn't food. But
what does all that have to do with steam? Steam, condensed, is water.
Dogs drink water. Ah, but when water is to which pine oil has been
added is used to make steam and is then condensed, it is spurned even
by thirsty dogs. Therefore, such steam is not food. Thus kosher
steam. From : The Jewish Almanac By: David C. Gross

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   03-29-95

