Title: Leeks and Sops in Wine
Categories: Vegetables, Medieval
Yield: 6 servings  Slyt sops.  Take white of lekes and slyt hem, and do hem to seeth in
wyne, oile and salt.  Tost brede and lay in disshes, and cast the
sewe aboue, and serue it forth.

8-12 leeks, depending on size 2 tablespoons olive oil Sprinkling of
salt 1 bottle (75 cl) white wine 3-4 slices soft-grain white bread,
freshly toasted

Even if Chaucer's franklin did not eat leeks for breakfast, he would
have found this classy version of 'sops in wine' a treat.  Monks
certainly did, especially in Lent when they often had only bread sops
and water for supper--officially.  Although simple, this was not a
poor man's dish. Poor people used whole leeks, and could not afford
white wine when broth was forbidden.  Olive oil and white bread
(mentioned in another recipe very much like this one) were luxuries
too.

Slice the white parts of the leeks thinly.  (Keep the rest for
everyday pottage.)  Simmer the sliced leeks, oil and salt in the wine
until the leek slices are soft.  Meanwhile, break or cut the toast
into small pieces and divide them between six soup bowls.  Cover them
with the leek slices and hot wine.  Serve as soon as the toast sops
have softened.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 3, "Life in the
Cloister" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham
Date: 05-24-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

