Title: Onion Zemmel (Flat Onion Rolls)
Categories: Breads, Jewish, Vegetables
Yield: 12 servings
No Ingredients Found
....................................................................
Throughout Eastern Europe, this delicious flat bread topped with
onions, salt and poppy seeds is a staple. Most countries have Onion
Zemmel in some form: In Italy it is pizza topped with onions. The
French serve pissaladiere. Even the Chinese made pancakes that are
filled with onions and baked or fried.  Ours is a basic challah
dough. On a cold evening, serve a platter of hot Onion Zemmel with a
thick meat soup or stew.
....................................................................
1 ea Basic Challah Recipe (see below) 2 ea Eggs; beaten with 1
tablespoon water 2 c  Onions; coarsely chopped x Kosher Salt x Poppy
Seeds MAKES 12 to 24 FLAT ROLLS Prepare the challah dough. After it
has risen, 1 hour or has doubled in size, punch it down. Break off
balls of the dough just large enough to hold in the palm of your
hand. Roll out each ball into a circular disk 1/2 inch thick. Place
each disk on a greased baking sheet, brush them with the egg mixture,
and sprinkle generously with the onions, kosher salt, and poppy
seeds. Let them rise , covered, for 1 hour at warm room temperature.
Preheat oven to 350F. Pierce the center of the zemmel all over with a
fork, leaving a rim unpierced. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes, or until
the onions begin to brown and the crust is crisp and golden. From:
The Gourmet Jewish Cookbook By: Judy Zeidler. Submitted By SAM
LEFKOWITZ   On   04-14-95

