Title: CHINESE FORTUNE COOKIES 1
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 12 Servings
1    Egg
1/3 c  Sugar
2 tb Corn oil
2 tb Water
1/4 c  Cornstarch
Have fortunes prepared in advance. Beat egg on low speed until
frothy. Beat in sugar, a little at a time, & continue beating until
mixture is a very light yellow and thick. Fold in corn oil. Blend
water and a little of the egg mixture into cornstarch, then stir into
the remaining egg mix.Heat heavy, well seasoned griddle to 350 deg,
or until drops of water bounce when dropped on the griddle. (For
griddles without temperature control, keep heat between low and
medium). Drop heaping T of batter on the griddle and spread with the
back of a spoon to about 4 in. wide and 1/8 in. thick. Cook until
edges are slightly brown & cookies can be easily lifted from griddle
with a spatula, 5 - 8 min. (If cookies stick, bottoms need to be
cooked a little longer). Turn cookies carefully & cook other side
until light brown. Be careful to keep temperature even. Place fortune
paper on cookie as soon as it is removed from the griddle. Folding is
easier to do than to describe, but the end result is shaped like a
horseshoe. Fold opposite edges together, forming a semicircle. Crease
crosswise at the center of the straight edge to form a flattened
side, then bend the opposing corners together for the traditional
shape. Set in a small glass or muffin tin until cookie cools and
holds its shape.Wipe griddle & stir batter. Repeat.

