Title: BASIC SOURDOUGH FRENCH BREAD
Categories: Breads
Yield: 2 Servings
2 c  Sourdough starter; proofed
1 pk Yeast; dry
6 c  Flour, all-purpose
1 c  Water; tepid
1 tb Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
Recipe by: Randy Pollak Preparation Time: 4:00 In a large bowl,
combine starter, water, yeast, sugar, salt, and 1 cup of flour. Set
aside in warm place for about 15 minutes to proof. Add remaining
flour and knead dough until smooth and elastic. Cover with bowl and
allow to double (about 1 1/2 hours). Punch down dough and divide in
half. Shape dough into two baguettes by first rolling dough into a
large rectangle, then roll rectangle into loaf (tuck ends underneath
loaf), place on baking sheet and allow to double again. With a very
sharp knife, make a slit down each loaf. Bake in a pre-heated
375-degree oven for 30 minutes, Test for doneness by tapping on loaf;
it should sound hollow. For a crispy crust, periodically spray water,
with a hair sprayer, into the oven while loaves are baking. DARK RYE:
Substitute 3 cups of rye flour for 3 cups of the all purpose flour.
Add 2 tablespoons of caraway seeds to the batter, along with 1 cup of
dark molasses, and 2 tablespoons of powdered cocoa. Substitute brown
sugar for the plain sugar. Reduce water by 1/4 cup. RAISIN-CINNAMON:
Add 2 slightly beaten eggs to the batter, after proofing. Roll each
half of dough into a large rectangle. Sprinkle each rectangle with a
mixture of, 1/4 cup sugar and 1 tablespoon of ground cinnamon.
Sprinkle each half with 1/2 cup of raisins. Carefully roll each
rectangle as you would to shape a baguette. tuck the ends underneath
the loaf. Allow to rise until doubled, do not split tops of loaves.
After baking brush loaves with melted butter. GARLIC-CHEESE: Add 1
cup of grated parmesan cheese to batter. Mince 6 cloves of garlic,
add to batter. After splitting tops of loaves, carefully pour 1
tablespoon of garlic butter on the top of each loaf. For a cheesier
loaf, before rolling rectangle into baguette, sprinkle with 1/2 cup
of grated cheddar cheese.

