Title: HENRY VIII'S "SEVEN HERB WINE"
Categories: Beverages
Yield: 30 Litres
Fruit juice
Sugar
Yeast
Wormwood
Tarragon
Thyme
Rosemary
Hyssop
Lovage
Chervil
The juices are extracted from the fruit (by cooking, pressing or
equivalent). Use a 30 l (8 ga) container. For every litre (? ga) of
(boiling) juice add 1 1/8 lb of sugar while stirring to dissolve the
sugar. Stop approx. 10" from the top. Fill a bag (10"*16") made out
of cheese cloth with the herbs and a stone (washed, of course) and
lower it to the bottom of the container. Be sure to close it well!
When the liquid is lukewarm add two toasted pieces of bread with 50 g
(1 3/4 oz) of yeast (baking-) on each side. Cover the container and
leave for 6-7 months (do check on it - I have no exact indication of
time other then "in May we bottle..."). This makes a clear, dry,
vermouth'ish wine. When made on summer apples it's more like Noilly
Prat when made on plums it's sweeter and more fruity. If you don't
like the fruit flavour you can add a "lid" of dried rowan berries on
top (or use another bag) during the fermentation period. This removes
the fruity taste and makes it more winelike. You can experiment with
different herbs and spices. The wine(s) are perfect for cocktails
(served in tall glasses with ice and lemon topped with some blue
borage flowers on top), used in a bowle with fruit and soft drinks or
just icecold as it is.

