Title: DOUGHNUTS WITH KALUHA CUSTARD
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 1 Servings
1 tb Sugar
3/4 c  Warm water
1 pn Ground ginger
1    Pack dry yeast
1 c  Milk
1/3 c  Sugar
1 ts Salt
1/2 c  Shortening
1    Beaten egg
5    6 cups flour
Doughnuts:  In a coffee mug dissolve sugar & ginger in warm water.
Stir in yeast & let stand for 10-15 minutes. Scald milk in saucepan &
pour into large mixing bowl. Add sugar, salt & shortening. Stir in
egg & about 1 cup flour. By this time the yeast in mug should have a
good foamy head. Stir it into the the flour egg mixture. Add another
cup of flour & beat well by hand until smooth. Gradually beat in the
rest of the flour. Turn out onto floured board & knead by hand for 10
minutes. The dough should be very smooth, satiny & light. Place the
dough in a clean buttered bowl, brush top with a little butter &
cover with warm damp cloth. Place in warm place & let stand about 1
hour until it has doubled in size. Punch down dough & roll it onto a
floured board to 1/2" thickness. With knife or pastry cutter. Cut
dough into 2" squares or 2*3" rectangles. Cover & let sit until
doubled in size, about 45 minutes. Heat clean vegetable oil in deep
fryer or large skillet to 375. Using wide spatula slide doughnuts
into oil & fry until golden, turning once. Lift out & drain doughnuts
on paper towels. When they are cool enough to handle, take each one
in turn, & using large kitchen syringe inject each doughnut with
about 1 oz. custard. Dip doughnuts into sugar glaze & let cool on
wire rack. These must be eaten fresh. Doughnuts: Submitted By
THESERVS@GATE.NET (THOMAS E. HAUG) On MON, 13 NOV 1995 155854 -0500

