Title: DRESSING
Categories: Turkey, Dressings
Yield: 6 Servings
-PAMELA BROWN   (GMNF21C)
The one secret to my dressing is Salt Rising bread. My Grandmother
always used it with other bread (we had to keep it a secret because
my father hated salt rising even though you can not tell is is in
there). I also have a hard time making just a little dressing and it
always looks like I'm fixing for an army. Basically I cook the neck,
heart, liver etc. in water to which I add 1 stick of butter and
celery tops for flavor for my liquid. If the dressing is too dry I
use chicken broth for additional moisture. I toast 1 loaf of day old
white bread and 1 loaf of salt rising bread. I then break the toast
into small pieces. Add a pkg. of Pepperidege Farm stuffing to the
toast. Cook a good portion of chopped celery and onions in broth.
When tender add to bread mix.  Form in to serving size balls and
place in a buttered baking dish. Spoon additional broth over balls.
Bake at 350 for 1 hour or until brown. We do not like soggy dressing
so I do not stuff the turkey.  This dressing is moist and is very
easy to serve. If I have too much for Thanksgiving I freeze the
uncooked balls and use them at Christmas which helps speed-up dinner
that busy day. I hope that your kids will like this recipe mine
always liked the idea of the balls.

