Title: Home-Candied Angelica
Categories: Candies
Yield: 1 servings
1 lb Granulated sugar
1 lb Angelica
The most important thing about candying angelica is to choose stalks that
are young and tender.  In other words, angelica is only worth candying in
April or May when the shoots are new and softly coloured.  Trim the young
shoots into 3-4 inch lengths, put them into a pan, cover with water and
bring to a boil.  Drain and scrape away tough skin and fibrous threads with
a potato peeler, rather as you might prepare celery.  Return the angelica
to the pan, pour on fresh boiling water and cook until green and tender. If
the shoots are as youthful as they should be, this will take 5 minutes or
less.  Drain the stalks and dry them.  Put them into a bowl and sprinkle
granulated sugar between layers, allowing 1 pound of sugar for every 1
pound of angelica.  Cover and leave for 2 to 3 days.  Slide contents of the
bowl into a heavy-based pan.  Bring very slowly to the boil and simmer
until the angelica feels perfectly tender and looks clear. Drain, then roll
or toss the shoots on greaseproof paper thickly strewn with sugar, letting
the angelica take up as much sugar as will stick to it. Then dry off the
angelica - without letting it become hard - in the oven, using the lowest
possible temperature.  I place the stalks directly on the oven shelves
(with trays underneath to catch any falling sugar) and find they need about
3 hours.  Wrap and store after cooling completely. Packed into pretty
little boxes, home-candied angelica makes a charming present.

Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987. Typed
for you by Karen Mintzias

