Title: Cuban Bread
Categories: Bread
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------ELAINE TAIT-----------------------------
MMMMM----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------
5 c  To 6 cups bread flour aprox.    2 1/2 c  Hot water,120 to 130 degs.
Corn meal
Water
2 pk Dry yeast
1 tb Salt
2 tb Sugar
Sprinkle the cornmeal on a non stick baking sheet. Place 4 cups of
flour in large mixing bowl,add yeast,salt,and sugar.Stir until all
are well blended.Pour in the hot water and beat 100 strong strokes or
three minutes with mixer dough hook. Gradually work enough of the
remaining flour,using fingers if necessary,1/2 cup at a time,that the
dough takes shape an no longer sticky. Sprinkle work surface with
some of the remaining flour.Place dough on work surface,working in
flour as you knead. Keep a dusting of flour between dough and working
surface.Knead for 8 minutes by hand or with dough hook of mixer until
it feels alive under your hands. Place dough in a greased bowl.Cover
with plastic wrap and put in a warm place,80 to 100 degs,until double
in bulk,about 15 minutes. Punch down dough,turn it out on work
surface,cut into 2 pieces.Shape each piece into a round.Place on non
stick baking sheet sprinkled with corn meal.With a sharpe knife or
razor slash an x on each loaf:brush with water. Place baking sheets
on middle shelf of cold oven.Place a large pan of hot water on shelf
below.Heat oven to 400 deg.After 1/2 hour reduce oven to 375 deg.The
bread will continue to rise while oven is heating.Bake for a total of
45 minutes.( Timing starts when you turn on the oven.) Loaves should
sound hollow when baked.Cool before slicing.Bread will not keepbeyond
a day or two,but freezes well and makes excellent toast when old......

