Title: Marinated Tofu
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 4 servings
-DEBORAH MADISON
Makes 4 Servings

Tofu marinated with wild mushrooms and herbs has an earthy, rich
flavor.

1 or 2 pkgs firm tofu, 14-to-18 oz each 1/2 oz dried wild mushrooms,
porcini or shiitake 1 C water 2 t dried oregano or marjoram 2 cloves
garlic, sliced 1/2 C olive oil 1/2 C sherry vinegar or red wine
vinegar 1/2 C red wine 1/2 C tamari soy sauce 4 cloves 1/2 t salt
Several twists black pepper

CUT THE TOFU INTO SLABS 1-inch thick--firm tofu often comes in pieces
that size--and drain them: Set them on a bread board or the back of a
baking sheet and raise 1 end; point the lower end toward the sink to
let the water drain off. Cover the tofu with another tray and weigh
it down with something heavy, such as a few cans of tomatoes. Let the
tofu drain for about 1/2 hour. This will remove excess water and
allow the marinade to penetrate without being diluted. While the tofu
is draining, prepare the marinade. Simmer the mushrooms in the water
for 15 minutes. Heat a small heavy skillet and toast the oregano or
marjoram slowly until it is fragrant. Add the oregano and the
remaining ingredients to the pot with the mushrooms. Bring to a boil,
and simmer slowly a few minutes more. Remove the tofu from the
draining board and arrange it in a single layer in a square or
rectangular non-corrosive pan. Strain the marinade through a coffee
filter or paper towel and pour it over the tofu. Cover with plastic
or a lid and refrigerate at least 1 day, preferably longer.

Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.40

