Title: BREAD MAKING ( LESSON FOUR OF FOUR)
Categories: Bread
Yield: 4 Servings
(In Which We Get a Little
Fancy)
First, let's review the basic recipe for one loaf of "plain" white
bread --

3 c  all-purpose flour 1 pkg yeast 1 1/4 c liquid (water or
milk...milk recommended) 1 egg (optional but recommended) An egg can
be added for extra flavor and nutrition; it softens the crust and
gives the interior a finer crumb. 1 teaspoon salt (optional but
recommended) 1 tablespoon sugar (optional but recommended)

Mix about three minutes until dough does not stick to floured fingers.
Knead for no less than 10 minutes; cover with towel and let it rise
in a warm (75 - 80 F) place for about an hour, or until it has about
doubled in size; punch it down; let it rest about 15 minutes; place
in greased bread pan; cover; let it rise about another hour; bake at
400 degrees for 25 to 30 minutes or until it sounds "hollow" when
thumped; remove from pan; let cool.

To make 2 loaves, simply double everything EXCEPT the yeast.

Now, for a couple of variations on a theme:

Rye bread -- instead of 3 cups of all-purpose flour, use 2 cups of
all- purpose and 1 cup of rye flour (available at a health food
store)...add 2 tablespoons of caraway seed to the dough...use
buttermilk instead of plain milk or water...add 1/3 cup of light
molasses to the dough...omit the sugar...the egg is still
optional...instead of baking in a bread pan, shape into a round ball
and bake on a lightly greased cookie sheet. Reduce the baking
temperature to 350 degrees...baking time may be 5 - 10 minutes
longer...(One loaf).

Whole wheat bread -- increase sugar to 1 1/2 tablespoons...use 1 1/2
cups of all-purpose flour and 2 cups of whole-wheat flour...use milk
instead of water...add 1/4 cup of butter or margarine...add 1/2 cup
molasses...the egg is still optional.  The method is the same except
the baking time may be 5 - 10 minutes longer.

For the above two variations, do NOT be tempted to use ALL rye flour
or ALL whole-wheat flour.  Those flours do not have enough gluten in
them for proper rising action, so you MUST use some all-purpose
flour, otherwise your finished product will be very heavy and close
textured.

For high-altitude baking (above 5,000 feet), use 1/2 the yeast. Yeast
dough rises faster at high altitudes.

A "perfect" loaf of bread should:

o  Have a well-browned, evenly rounded top o Have a soft and moist
interior, easily pulled apart o Have a uniform color o Have an even
texture -- holes are small and uniform in size from top to bottom

To keep bread fresh, wrap each cooled loaf in foil or plastic wrap,
or seal in a plastic bag; store in a cool, dry cupboard or bread box.
Bread may be stored in the refrigerator but it goes stale more
quickly.

Bread keeps in the freezer for up to 3 months if tightly wrapped in
foil, heavy-duty plastic wrap, or freezer wrap, or sealed in plastic
bags. Always make sure to press out as much air as possible.

Well, that's about it, li'l buckaroos.  Don't be afraid to experiment
~ Add raisins, nuts, cheese, finely diced and lightly sauteed onions,
or anything else you can think of to the dough.  Add green food
coloring for St. Patrick's day!  Add a squid or two...play around
with using different liquids...a friend of mine recently told me she
was baking a cake and ran out of milk, so she substituted baby
formula...said it was the best cake she'd ever made! Play around with
different shapes...knots, pinwheels, crescents, rolls, etc.  Use your
imagination! Make a heart-shaped loaf of bread for Valentine's day or
a birthday! Tell us about your successes, give your not-so-valiant.

Bread from scratch -- lesson four

