Title: BRIGHTON BEACH BAKE
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 1 Servings
-===================
-(serves 6 to 8)
Ingredients:

1 tsp   Sesame oil 2 medium sized onions 3 cloves garlic 20 g Brighton
Beach Sewered Seaweed (aka Dried Arame) 3/4 lb Mushrooms 2 medium
sized carrots 3 tsp Vecon or similar vegetable stock 2 tsp Mirin 1
tsp Black Pepper 2 tsp Sea Salt 750 g Couscous lots Water Chop the
onions and mince the garlic and fry in the sesame oil. Soak the arame
for about 15 minutes in boiling hot water and then add to the onion
and garlic *without* the water used for soaking.  Add the finely
chopped mushrooms and the grated carrots.  Mix the stock in some
boiling hot water and add to the dish. At the same time add the
leftover water from soaking the arame. Add the mirin and salt and
pepper to taste. It is probably best to have it slightly on the salty
side as the saltiness will disappear when the couscous is added.
Simmer the mixture covered for about 20 minutes.

In a large mixing bowl add the couscous and the mixture together and
any extra water required to cover. Leave for five minutes.

Grease a large baking tray and line with baking parchment. Add the
mixture to the baking tray and place in the oven covered with foil.
Bake for about twenty minutes.  Remove the foil and if the bake is
still too wet continue for another five to ten minutes. The top
should be slightly browned, grill if necessary.

We were originally going to add sesame seeds to this but forgot to as
we were making it.  Sesame seeds might be a good idea and would be
especially useful if you wanted a dish without any added salt. You
can also use a dried seaweed blend instead of salt.

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

From: mkay@sequent.com (Mary Kay Petersen)

Source: _Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant_, the Moosewood Collective,
1990; Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.40

