Title: Scottish Oat Cakes
Categories: Cracker
Yield: 35 servings
2 c  Finely ground oat meal
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Baking soda
3 tb Butter
1/2 c  Water
"These are great alone or spread with butter and honey. The finely
ground oat meal called for in this recipe is not the familiar rolled
oats, but is similar in texture to fine corn meal. It is obtainable
in health food or specialty stores, or you can grind your own from
steel cut oats. 325~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.

Stir together the oat meal, salt, and baking soda in the food
processor or in a large bowl.

Cut in the butter until it is evenly mixed throughout. Add just
enough of the water to form a dough that will hold together in a
cohesive ball. The dough will be somewhat crumbly.

Divide into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a lightly floured
surface or pastry cloth, roll out to about 1/8 inch thick. With a
cookie cutter, cut into 2-inch circles. Place the circles on an
ungreased baking sheet. Prick each 2 or 3 times with the tines of a
fork. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until crisp. Cool on a rack.
Yield: 30-35.

VARIATION: An alternative method is to roll the dough a little
thicker, about 3/16 inch, cut into 3-inch triangular shapes, and cook
them on a griddle. Gently place each cake on a medium hot skillet or
griddle. After 2 to 3 minutes, the undersides will show browning and
the edges may start to turn up. Turn the cakes over for a few
minutes. Remove the cakes to a preheated 300~F. oven and bake them
for about 5 to 10 minutes, until they are crisp and thoroughly dry.

