Title: All About Chocolate #1   Drnd29a
Categories: Chocolate, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------TYPES OF CHOCOLATE--------------------------
UNSWEETENED CHOCOLATE: The basic chocolate from which all other
porducts are made.  It is molded into 1-ounce blocks and sold in
8-ounce packages. It may also be sold melted and packaged in
envelopes. SEMISWEET CHOCOLATE: Unsweetened chocolate with sugar,
extra cocoa butter, and flavorings added to give it a satiny gloss.
It is molded into 1-ounce blocks and sold in 8-ounce packages or
formed into chocolate chips. SWEET BAKING CHOCOLATE (GERMAN SWEET
CHOCOLATE): Similar to semisweet chocolate, but has more sugar and is
packaged in 4-ounce bars. MILK CHOCOLATE: Sweet chocolate with milk
added.  It is sold in various shapes and bars. ALMOND BARK: An
artificial chocolate made with vegetable fats instead of cocoa
butter, with coloring and flavorings added. It is sold in 1 1/2-
pound packages or in blocks and round discs where candy supplies are
sold. UNSWEETENED COCOA: A form of pure chocolate with most of the
cocoa butter removed and ground into powder. It is sold in 8-ounce or
16-ounce cans. CHOCOLATE-FLAVORED SYRUP: A combination of cocoa, corn
syrup, and flavoring and is available in various sizes in jars, cans,
or plastic containers. Formatted by Rose Capoccia   From CHOCOLATE
FANTASIES

