Title: Menus & Hints for Preparing For a Get-Together
Categories: Mom's, Information
Yield: 2 servings
Favorite Blend
Twin Angel-Cake Pie
Spiced Tea or Your Own
MEMO TO THE COOK: With tea. serve lemon slices and sprigs of fresh
mint if you wish. ++- Forgotten Torte++ A Conversation Piece! Halves
of Walnuts and Pecans Demitasse with Twist of Lemon Peel MEMO TO THE
COOK: Set torte on pretty cakestand, with green leaves tucked
underneath and bowl of salted nuts nearby. For a Continental touch,
serve black coffee with lemon peel. ++- Buffet Chicken Salad Frozen
Cranberry Slices Hot Rolls Relishes Pitcher of Iced Tea MEMO TO THE
COOK: Before guests arrive, fill some compartments of Lazy Susan tray
with chilled chicken salad and salad greens, ripe olives. chutney.
watermelon pickle, and peach preserves. To serve, fill other
compartments with cranberry slices, hot rolls. ++- Crab-Meat Salad in
Avocado Shells or Lobster Salad in Tomato Shells Blue-Cheese
Butterflake Rolls Iced-Coffee Float MEMO TO THE COOK: Early in
evening, arrange individual salads on water cress. Spread "petals" of
butterflake rolls with blue-cheese spread. Pour chilled coffee into
glasses. Just hefore serving, bake rolls at 425Ã¸ F. 10 min. To
coffee, add spoonfuls of coffee ice cream and grated chocolate. ++-
Coconut Ice-Cream Ball Medley Trayful of Assorted Brownies Hot Coffee
MEMO TO THE COOK: Days ahead, make ice-cream balls (strawberry,
pistachio, peach. coffee); roll in coconut; store in freezer or
combination refrigerator-freezer. Shortly before serving, remove from
freezer to large crystal bowl or brandy snifter. Spoon thawed frozen
fruit over all. ++- Miniature Ice-Cream Puffs Cardinal Sauce Coffee
or Tea MEMO TO THE COOK: Days ahead. make small cream puffs; fill
with different ice creams. Freezer-wrap; freeze. A few minutes before
serving, remove puffs from freezer; top with Cardinal Sauce (1 pkg.
each partially thawed raspberries and strawberries mixed) . Serve 2
or 3 to each guest

