Title: More Menus & Hints for Get-Togethers
Categories: Mom's, Information
Yield: 1 servings
Fruit Sip
Jelly Roll Plate
Cracked Walnuts in Shell
MEMO TO THE COOK: For jelly rolls, split bakers' spongecake layer
into 2 layers. Place each layer, with crust down, in granulated
sugar; roll lightly with rolling pin; spread with jelly. Roll up;
slice 1" thick. For the wonderful fruit drink, arrange, in each
glass, orange, baby watermelon, and apple wedges; a few red and green
grapes; a strawberry; and a Bing cherry. Then fill glass with ginger
ale, or lemonade or limeade made from frozen concentrate. ++-
Pineapple-Salad Molds Nut Muffins Coffee MEMO TO THE COOK: This menu
is designed for the ladies. Before guests come, unmold salads onto
serving plates; refrigerate. Start muffins about 1/2 hr. before
serving: To packaged-muffin-mix batter, just add chopped walnuts or
pecans; sprinkle top of each muffin with a few nuts before baking;
bake as label directs. ++- Poundcake Fingers or Coconut Sticks Small
Clusters of Blue and Red Grapes Hot Mulled cider MEMO TO THE COOK: On
each dessert plate, place several cake fingers or Coconut Sticks,
grape clusters, and hot mulled cider in a demitasse cup (a handy
arrangement for holding food on lap). Then wheel in plates on serving
cart to waiting TV viewers. ++- Warm Blueberry Cups Tea or Coffee
MEMO TO THE COOK: For unexpected company, try this: Warm bakers'
dessert shells slightly in oven. Meanwhile, slowly heat 1 pkg. frozen
blueberries. Spoon berries over cakes; top with whipped cream or ice
cream; sprinkle with ground cinnamon or allspice. ++- Cheese Blintzes
Sour Cream Cherry Preserves Coffee MEMO TO THE COOK: Buy frozen
blintzes; saute in butter or margarine. Serve warm, with spoonfuls of
sour cream and preserves, and lots of hot coffee. (Put coffee cup on
same plate so guests can balance food with ease.) ++- Spicy
Strawberry Pin Wheels Iced Tea or Iced Coffee MEMO TO THE COOK: Just
before guests arrive. make pin wheels so they're ready for baking.
Place on greased cookie sheet; refrigerate. About 30 min. before
serving time start heating oven to 450Ã¸ F. Remove pin wheels from
refrigerator. Let stand at room temperature 15 min., Then bake and
serve.

