Title: Nine Day Chunk Pickles
Categories: Can/preserv, Vegetable
Yield: 1 servings
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%% GHERKINS  %%%%%
Pick out the smallest cucumber that you can find.  Follow same recipe
as for the 9 day chunk pickle, but leave cucumbers whole.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% NINE DAY CHUNK PICKLES
%%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% 7 lbs cukes 3 lbs sugar (1
lb = 2-1/4 cups) 1 quart white vinegar 3 quarts water 1 tbsp alum
cinnamon stick allspice (whole) celery seed green food coloring, if
desired large plastic bucket Soak the cucumbers (whole) in brine for
three days (1 cup salt to 1 gallon of water) 3RD DAY: Drain and cover
with fresh water 4TH DAY: Drain and cover with fresh water 5TH DAY:
Drain, wipe dry, and cut into 1 inch chunks.  Simmer in 1 quart
vinegar and 3 quarts water with the 1 tbsp alum added.  Let stand
over night in this mixture. 6TH DAY: Drain cucumbers. Mix
together1-1/2 quarts vinegar and 1-1/2 quarts water. Bring to boil.
While boiling, add cinnamon sticks, whole allspice, celery seed and
2-1/4 cups of white sugar. Pour over the drained cucumber chunks and
let stand over night. 7TH DAY: Drain off syrup, reserving. Bring
reserved syrup to a boil and add another 2-1/4 cups of sugar to
mixture. Boil until sugar is completely dissolved.  Pour over drained
cucumbers. 8TH DAY: Let sit for 24 hours. 9TH DAY: Drain syrup,
reserving. Bring reserved syrup to a boil and add the last 2-1/4 cups
of white sugar. Boil until sugar is dissolved. Green food coloring
can be added at this point if desired. Pack pickles into clean,
sterilized jars. Pour hot syrup over pickles, leaving 1 inch head
space.  Seal with clean, new, hot lids. Process in boiling water bath
15 minutes for pints and 20 minutes for quarts. This is the absolute
best pickle I have ever made, or eaten.  They are sweet but tangy,
and the cucumbers stay nice and crisp.  Best all round sweet pickle
recipe EVER. Origin: Sharon Stevens, from unknown source Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, Jan/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   12-31-94

