Title: Sharon's Easy As Pie Bread
Categories: Bread
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
This is the easiest bread recipe I have ever tried... dissolve 1 tbsp
yeast in a bowl with 1 tbsp sugar and 1 cup warm water. While it's
bubbling, mix 3 cups warm water and 2 tbsp oil together in big bowl.
Stir in 1/2 tbsp of white sugar until completely dissolved. If you
have some, add a couple of tbsp of powdered milk, but this is okay
without.

When yeast is very bubbly, add to the water/oil mixture.  Mix
together. Gradually add white flour until you get a consistency of
dryish bubble gum (chewed) (*this is the easiest way I can explain
it*) Spread a little oil on your table surface and dump dough onto
oil. Knead for about 15 minutes or until dough is the consistency of
chewed bubble gum, and gluten is sticking to the table.  Smooth into
a round ball, grease all sides and allow to double in size.  Punch
down, knead a few times, and allow to rise a second time.  Punch
down, shape into loaves and after about 50 minutes, put in preheated
400F oven.  Bake for about 5 minutes at 400, then turn oven down to
about 350 and continue to bake for about 40-45 minutes,or until it
sounds hollow went tapped. ** The way to tell when the dough is ready
for it's first rise is when the gluten has been broken down from the
flour, and it is starting to stick to the table. By this time, the
dough will feel very smooth and elastic and will feel like chewed
bubble gum. That's how I was taught, and that's about the only way I
can now tell when the dough has had enough kneading** Origin: Sharon
Stevens Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Jan/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   12-29-94

