Title: Yeast Free Diet Guidelines
Categories: Diabetic, Information
Yield: 1 servings
TRY TO AVOID
~ All types of sugar and sugar containing foods: eg.. sugar, sucrose,
fructose, maltose, lactose, glycogen, glucose, mannitol, sorbitol,
balactose, monosaccharides, polysaccharides, honey, molasses, maple
syrup, maple sugar, date sugar, brown sugar, raw sugar and turbinado
sugar. READ LABELS! - Yeast, bread and pastries - Alcoholic beverages
~ Malt products - Condiments and sauces: ketchup, worcestershire
sauce, accent, MSG, steak, BBQ, chili and soy sauces, pickles,
relishes, green olives and sauerkraut. - Vinegar containing food and
sprouts - Processed and smoked meats - Dried and candied fruits -
Coffee and Tea (decaffinated herbal teas are okay) - Mushrooms,
morels and truffles - Cheese, milk, sour cream and buttermilk - Tofu
~ Yeasts - Packaged and processed foods - Peanuts and pistachios -
Citric Acid - Melon may be tolerate if it is carefully washed before
cutting - Canned, processed and fast food - almost all contain sugar,
yeast and/or chemicals - B complex vitamins, selenium products UNLESS
labelled yeast free and sugar free - Fresh fruit juice is preferable
to frozen concentrated.  However, unsweetned frozen fruit juices may
be used in baking instead of sugar, honey, and chemical sweeteners.
Origin: Pamphlet on Yeast Free Diet, Guidelines and Recipes AND from
the Yeast Free Living Book by Annette Annechild & Laura Johnson.
Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Feb/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-15-95

