Title: Chicken A La Meridionale Part Two
Categories: Poultry, Main dish
E  *****
Yield: 6 servings

Dry the chicken pieces thoroughly on paper towels. Season with salt
and pepper. Heat the butter and 2 tb oil in a large chicken fryer or
skillet and saute the chicken pieces a few at a time until evenly
browned on all sides. Remove the peices to a side dish, regulate the
heat so as not to burn the fat and Add the tomatoes and wine and
bring the mixture to a boil, scraping the bottom of the pan well.
Season the mixture with salt and pepper; add the Bouquet Garni and
the chicken stock and return the chicken pieces to the pan.Cover the
skillet and simmer the Heat 4 tb of olive oil in a large skillet and
saute the eggplant until lightly browned. Remove the cubes to a thick
layer of paper towels to drain. Add more oil to the skillet andsaute
the zucchini pieces until they are lightly browned. Remove them to a
s When the chicken is done, remove it with a slotted spoon to a side
dish. Strain the pan juices, pressing down well on the vegetables to
extract all their juices. Return the juicesto the pan and place the
skillet over high heat. Beat in the cornstarch mixt Season. Add the
mixed herbs or parsely and pimiento. Pour the sauced over the chicken
and serve. From "Seasonal Kitchen, a Celebration of Fresh Foods", by
Perle Meyers Shared by Terri Woltmon on Echo board, and formatted for
MM by Marge Nemeth.

:
Recipe By

