Title: Curries, history and text
Categories: Information, Curries
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
This Article is taken from The Herbalist, newsletter of the Botanic
Medicine Society. COPYRIGHT Dec 1988.

We consider curries native to India and do not realize how many
different types there are. There seems to be many misconceptions
about curries in general. Curry is a fashion of cooking: a process
whereby meats, fish, vegetables or even fruit are cooked in varying
combinations of ground herbs and spices, (known as curry pastes), to
produce a stew like dish. All dishes that are hot and spicy are not
curries, nor are all curries fiery hot. Curry powder is an amalgam of
some "Indian" spices best applied to the flavorings of curry dips and
dishes where a hint of curry influence is desired. In a Thai curry,
the proportion of solids to liquid is small. As they are always eaten
over large mounds of steamed rice, just a few solids suffice and the
flavour of the spicy, highly flavored gravy is extended by the bland
rice. Curry pastes should be a marvelous, aromatic mixture of freshly
ground herbs and spices. When preparing a curry paste, it is
preferable to first use a mortar and pestle with the hard fibrous
ingredients rather than including them with other ingredients in a
food processor or blender. The pounding of the pestle crushes the
husks and fibers releasing the oils and juices, whereas the processor
and blender merely cut the spices. For the modern kitchen cook with
no time to spare, a food processor in conjunction with an electric
spice or coffee type grinder can be used. This does not however
eliminate the requirement for a mortar and pestle. For mashing moist
herbs like lemon grass, garlic and shallots there is no substitute.
However, the whole dried spices (chilies, cloves), give out their
best aroma when pulverized by a good grinder. When you are preparing
a paste, single out the hard and dried spices and pound or grind them
first before proceeding further. Shared by: Jim Anderson

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-17-95

