Title: Deep Fried Squid With Plantain/Banana Fritters  - Pt. 2
Categories: Seafood, Vietnamese
Yield: 1 servings  *(Muc Chien Voi Chuoi Chien).

1.  Make the fritters first.  Make the batter by mixing the flour and
salt. Stir the cinnamon, egg, and milk together and add to the flour
and salt mixture.  Mix thoroughly usinga wire whisk. Place on a low
shelf in the refrigerator for at least 30 minut 2. Add the egg and
then 2 tablespoons sugar to the plantain, eating continuously. Mix
the flour and baking powder, stir into the plantain mixture and blend
thoroughly. Coat the mixture, a tablespoon at a time, with the
batter. Heat the oil and fry thes 3.  Make the Nuoc Cham sauce. Place
the garlic, chili, sugar, lime or lemon juice, vinegar, Nuoc Mam
sauce, and water in a blender or food processor and blend for 30
seconds untilthe sugar dissolves. Set aside. 4. Separate the head and
body of the squid by pulling apart gently. Cut off and chop up the
tentacles; discard the head.  Peel off the membrane from the body.
Wash the squid under cold water and cut the body into rings. 5.
Combine the squid, tentables, garlic, Nuoc Mam sauce, if used, dill,
and black pepper. Allow to marinate for 30 minutes.  Coat the rings
and tentables in cornstarch, shaking off excess. 6. Heat the oil
until it starts to smoke. Drop in the squid a few pieces at a time
and deep--fry for about 1 minute or until golden brown.  Remove and
drain on paper towels. 7. On a serving plate, make a ring with the
plantain fritters and heap the deep-fried squid in the middle.  Serve
hot with the Nuoc Cham sauce in a small bowl.

Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.

: "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
Recipe By
Books
see part 1 for ingredients

