Title: LEMONGRASS PRIMER VMXV03A
Categories: Thai, Condiments, Information
Yield: 1 servings
Lemongrass
Though common throughout southeast Asia, lemongrass is featured most
prominently in the cuisine of Thailand, where it may be found growing
in practically every house. It contains citral, the same substance
found in the zest of a lemon, and 1 T of chopped fresh lemongrass has
about the same "sour power" as an equal amount of minced lemon peel.
Fresh lemongrass is increasingly available at Asian markets
throughout the United States. It is easy to grow your own, either in
the garden or as a houseplant. Stand a stalk in water until it starts
sending out roots, pot it and place the plant in a sunny spot.    The
entire stalk is useful. Aside from the instructions of specific
recipes, cut a 6" section off the root end, remove the outer few
layers from this lower part, chop the inner fiber and saute to make a
crisp topping for chicken or to put into salads and sauces. The
tougher outer layers can be chopped and added to marinades for
chicken or pork, or mashed and brewed for tea. The top of the stalk
can be bundled and added to stock or used as a flavoring for hot and
sour soup. Condensed from Bon Appetit, June,1992. Mail order sources
given are Tommy Tang and Dean & DeLuca. For information on Thai
cooking kits and fresh lemongrass, call A Univesal Foods Odyssey,
800-238-AUFO. Condensation and MM format by Mike Kean.

