Title: Rutabaga Description And Serving Suggestions
Categories: Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------------RUTABAGA-------------------------------
Common Names: Rutabaga, Swedish Turnip, Swede, Russian Turnip, Yellow
Turnip

Botanical Name: Brassica Napobrassica

Origin: Northern Europe

DESCRIPTION Rutabaga is a hardy biennial grown as an annual. It has a
rosette of smooth, grayish-green leaves that grow from the swollen
stem, and it has a root that can be yellow, purple, or white. The
rutabaga can be distinguished from the turnip by the leaf scars on
its top, and the leaves are more deeply lobed than the turnip's. As
vegetables go, rutabagas are a fairly modern invention. They were
created less than 200 years ago by crossing a cabbage with a turnip
(probably Swedish).

WHERE AND WHEN TO GROW Rutabagas are very hardy and grow better in
cool weather. They like a definite difference between night and day
temperatures. In hot weather they produce lots of leaves, but small
stringy roots. Plant them in late summer in the North, and in the
fall in the South or where the weather gets very hot.

WHEN AND HOW TO HARVEST Time from planting to harvest is 90 to 100
days, and a 10 foot row may give you over 10 pounds of rutabagas if
the weather has been right. To harvest, dig up the whole roots when
the rutabagas are three to five inches in diameter. Store rutabagas
in a cold, moist place for two to four months; do not refrigerate.
They can also be frozen.

SERVING SUGGESTIONS Peel rutabagas and steam or boil until tender;
then mash them for use in puddings and pancakes. They can also be
served sliced or diced. Add rutabagas to vegetable soups and stews.
Saute them in butter with apples and brown sugar. Rutabaga is very
good with lots of butter or sour cream; low-calorie alternatives are
yogurt or low-fat cream cheese.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-07-95

