Title: GRAINS
Categories: Info/tips
Yield: 1 Servings  ================== Information file ================== WHOLE WHEAT Is
ideal for cereals, soups, salads, main dishes. The usual proportions
to cook are 1 part wheat to 2 parts water plus 1/2 - 1 tsp salt.
Wheat can be steamed, cooked in a crock pot, pressure cooker or
successfully prepared by the oven method:

OVEN: Preheat oven to 300F. combine wheat and water in a pan and
bring to a boil. Boil 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cover and place in
oven. Turn oven off.  Leave wheat undisturbed overnight or for 8- 10
hours.

THERMOS METHOD: is easy, saves fuel and attention and gives a chewy
product: Preheat 1 quart thermos with boiling water. Boil 1 cup wheat
and 2 cups water for 3 minutes. Place in thermos, seal and let stand
overnight. Wheat cracked in grinder or blender can be used for
cereal, casseroles, bread,cookies. Proportions are 1 part cracked
wheat to 4 parts water for coarse textured bread. Cook enough
wholewheat to last at least a week. The ready to use wheat may be
stored airtight in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks. 1 cup wheat
makes 4-6 servings. Reheat cooked wholewheat. Serve wit mushroom
sauce or gravy in place of potatoes. Use in place of rice for
stroganoff, etc. Add cooked whole or cracked wheat to casseroles,
chili, spaghetti sauce, sloppy joes, soups, stews, salads,sandwich
spreads, etc.

SPLIT PEAS: Should be combined with other protein food for good
nutrition. Good in soups or as a vegetable. For a quick soup, grind
peas, whole or split,to a flour. (combine with water in a blender for
1 minute) (1 part pea flour to 3-4 parts liquid).  Simmer 3 minutes
and season. Raw vegetables may be added in the blender or to the
soup. Ham flavoring is good.  Bean soup may also be made this way.

SOYBEANS: Should be an important part of the storage program. They
are very high in both amount and quality of protein. Soybeans are
rich in minerals, B vitamins, and unsaturated fats. They can be grown
in the home garden and used green or dried.  Store dry soybeans in a
cool dry place and rotate every 3-5 years. To cook, soak soybeans
overnight (3-4 cups water to 1 cupp beans)  in the refrigerator.  If
the beans are hard,boil 2 minutes before soaking.  To sak quickly,
boil 2- 5 minutes, remove from heat, cover and let stand 1 to 2
hours. If the soaking water isn't bitter, use it to simmer the beans
in for 3 or more hours, until tender. Soybeans can be used for baked
beans or substituted for lima or navy beans. Use part soybeans in
your chili recipe, bean salads, etc.

Origin: HomeMaking Handbook, from Mormon Church, 1978. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens

