Title: WHITE SAUCE VARIATIONS - INFORMATION
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings  ================== Information file ==================

* Asparagus Sauce: Add 1/2 cup cooked or canned asparagus, cut into
small pieces, to hot medium white sauce. Serve with omelets or
souffles.

* Caper Sauce: Add 3 to 4 tablespoons chopped capers and 1 teaspoon
lemon juice to white sauce. Serve with fish.

* Cheese Sauce: Add 1/2 to 1 cup chopped or grated American cheese
and a dash of Worcestershire sauce or paprika (optional) to white
sauce. Stir over hot, not boiling, water until cheese is melted.
Serve with fish, eggs, macaroni, or rice.

* Cheese Olive Sauce: Prepare think white sauce and omit salt. Add
1/2 to 1 cup chopped or grated American cheese and 1/2 cup stuffed
olives to white sauce. Stir over hot, not boiling, water until cheese
is melted. Serve with macaroni, rice, or vegetables.

* Cheese Tomato Sauce: Use 1/2 cup tomato juice or strained tomatoes
and 1/2 cup milk in preparing medium sauce. Add 1/4 cup grated or
finely cut American cheese to hot sauce. Stir until melted. Serve
over cauliflower.

* Crabmeat Sauce: Remove bony particles from crabmeat and add 1/2 to
1 cup flaked canned crabmeat to seasoned medium white sauce. Flavor
with 1 tablespoon dry sherry wine if desired.

* Cream Onion or Celery Sauce: Saute 1/4 cup finely chopped onion or
celery in 1 tablespoon butter or margarine. Add to 1 cup medium white
sauce.

* Creole Sauce: Use tomato juice or strained tomatoes for the liquid.
Saute minced onion, chopped green pepper, and minced celery in the
butter before flour is added.

* Curry Sauce: Add 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon curry powder with dry
ingredients. Serve with chicken, lamb, rice, or fish.

* Dill Sauce: Add 3 tablespoons minced fresh dill to 1 cup hot sauce,
seasoned medium white sauce.

* Egg Sauce: Add 2 chopped hard-cooked eggs to white sauce, additional
salt, and a dash of paprika. Serve with fish.

* Goldenrod Sauce: Add 2 chopped hard-cooked egg whites to 1 cup
seasoned medium white sauce. Pour over fish and sprinkle with chopped
hard-cooked egg yolks.

* Green Pea Sauce: Add 1/2 cup hot cooked or canned peas and 1
tablespoon chopped pimento to hot medium white sauce. Serve with
omelets or salmon or tuna loaf.

* Horseradish Sauce: Add 2 to 4 tablespoons prepared drained
horseradish, and 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon prepared mustard to white sauce.
Serve with boiled beef or corned beef.

* Lobster or Shrimp Sauce: Add 1/2 to 1 cup canned or cooked lobster
meat or shrimp, cut into small pieces to seasoned medium white sauce.
For added flavor, add a tablespoon dry white wine. Serve with
omelets, baked, broiled, or poached fish.

* Milanese Sauce: Use 1/2 cup veal stock and 1/2 cup milk in preparing
medium white sauce. Add 2 tablespoons grated parmesan cheese to the
thickened sauce. Serve with veal.

* Mock Holandaise Sauce: To 1/2 cup well seasoned white sauce, add
equal amount of mayonaise and enough lemon juice to sharpen. Serve on
asparagus and other green vegetables.

* Mushroom Sauce: Add 1/2 to 1 cup sliced cooked or canned mushrooms
to white sauce. Serve with chicken or vegetables.

* Mustard Sauce: Add 1 tablespoon prepared mustard to white sauce.
Serve with fish or tongue.

* Oyster Sauce: Gently cook 1/2 cup small oysters in their own liquid
until they plump and edges begin to curl, about 5 minutes. Add to hot
medium white sauce. Serve with omelets, fish patties, and timbales.

* Paprika Sauce: Add 1/2 to 1 teaspoon paprika with dry ingredients.
Season with 1/4 teaspoon lemon juice, if desired. Serve with noodles,
macaroni, or chicken.

* Pimento Sauce: Add 1/4 cup chopped pimento to white sauce; 1/4 cup
green pepper may be added if desired. Serve with fish or vegetables.

MMMMM

