Title: Hungarian Jerbo
Categories: Desserts, Pastry, Jewish
Yield: 1 servings
HUNGARIAN JERBO
===============
............................
-...........................
-...........
The Hungarians are known for their extravagant pastries This jerbo
consists three layers of delicious pastry, with a tangy filling of
chopped nuts and ground lemon, which gives it a marvelous flavor.
Another layer of prune lacqvar or other jam and a creamy chocolate
icing complete this mouth-watering recipe. You'll want to make it for
special occasions and holidays.
..................................................................
INGREDIENTS: DOUGH: 1 c Margarine 1/2 c Sugar 6 ea Egg Yolks 1/2 c
Orange Juice 3 c All-Purpose Flour 2 ts Baking Powder FILLING: 1-1
1/2 c Chopped Nuts 3 tb Bread Crumbs 1 c Sugar 2 ts Vanilla Extract 1
ea Lemon, whole; ground with peel in food processor DIRECTIONS: Cream
margarine and sugar. Add yolks, and cream until fluffy. Stir in
orange juice, flour, and baking powder. Divide into three parts and
refrigerate for 1 hour. Combine filling ingredients and set aside.
Roll out each part of dough to fit a greased 9 X 12-inch baking
sheet. Place one layer on the bottom. Spread with whole amount of nut
filling. Place second layer of dough over nut filling. Spread with
second layer of filling. Place third layer of dough on top. Bake in a
350F oven for 40 minutes. When cool, ice with Chocolate Icing.
CHOCOLATE ICING: 1/3 c Cocoa 1 c Powdered Sugar 2 tb Oil 2 tb Hot
Water 1 ts Vanilla Extract Combine ingredients and spread on cooled
jerbo. Slice into diamond shapes or small squares. To serve, place in
fluted paper cups. From: Classic Kosher Coooking by Sara Finkel
Published By: Targum Press Inc. - ISBN 0-944070-14-0 Transcribed By:
S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   08-27-95

