Title: Asparagus Tips - Butter Busters ^
Categories: Healthy, Side dish
Yield: 1 ----------
1 x  Text File
Fresh asparagus previously was available only in the spring months;
now imports from other countries make it available almost year round.
although available frozen or canned, fresh is still the best. These
slender stalks will help you to keep slender at only 21 calories per
3 1/2 ounce serving and no fat whatsoever. Select asparagus that is
firm and not shrivled. Look fo tips that are tightly closed. Store
unwashed asparagus up to one week in a plastic bag in the
refrigerator with the bottom of the stalks wrapped in dampened paper
towels. To use bottom portions, wash asparagus and snap off tough
bottom portion of each stalk. Cut bottom portions into 1-inch pieces
and place them in a 2 cup glass measure. Add 1/3 cup broth or water
and cover with vented plastic wrap. Microwave on high 3-4 minutes per
cup of pieces. Strain through sieve to remove fibers before using in
recipes. To microwave spears, place washed asparagus spears in an au
gratin dish or 1 1/2qt. rectangular dish. Do not add water. Cover
with vented plastic wrap and microwave on high 4-5 minutes per pound
of trimmed asparagus. To microwave cut pieces, place washed asparagus
cut in 1-inch pieces in casserole. Do not add water. cover with lid
and microwave on high 4-5 minutes per pound of trimmed asparagus.
Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-466-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95.

Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-21-95

