Title: Butter Busters Cholesterol Information 3/3 ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
THE FAT AND CHOLESTEROL CONNECTION

Fat and cholesterol are combined with protein to be carried through
the blood vessels together as lipoproteins. Imagine that the
lipoproteins are little busses in your body and the fats and
cholesterols are passengers. These busses are traveling through the
blood vessels in your body that we will compare to a highway. The
more passengers you have, the more busses you will need to carry
them. In other words, the more fat and cholesterol you eat, the more
lipoproteins you will need to transport them through the body. All
htese fat laden busses are headed for your muscles cells, which break
down the fat for energy and storage. After dropping off the fat, this
leaves mostly cholesterol being carried by the llipoproteins. When
you have too much cholesterol left in your blood stream, the excess
cholesterol can be deposited in the walls of the blood vessels. To
make matters worse, saturated fat somehow interferes with the ability
of the liver to eliminate cholesterol. Consiquently, it doesn't
efficiently remove cholesterol from the blood. Al this excess fat and
cholesteroll in your blood are unwelcome visitors. They irritate and
damage the linings of your arteries to produce plaque. If this goes
on too long, the plaque builds up and obstructs the blood vessel.
when the blood vessel gets blocked off signifigantly, a heart attack
or stroke can result. This is why it is so important to keep the
blood vessel highways of our bodies open. In most cases, it is our
poor eating habits (high fat and cholesterol diets), causing the
traffic jams that endanger our lives.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

