Title: Caramel-Orange Buche De Noel2
Categories: Dessert, Fruit
Yield: 2 servings  FOR CAKE: Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Butter llxl7-inch jelly roll
pan. Line with parchment. Butter and flour parchment. Coarsely grind
toasted almonds with flour in processor. Using electric mixer, beat
yolks with 5 tablespoons brown sugar in medium bowl until slowly
dissolving ribbons form when beaters are lifted. Stir in orange peel
and vanilla extract. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites with cream
of tartar and salt in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add
remaining 5 tablespoons brown sugar and beat until stiff but not dry.
Fold whites into yolk mixture. Gently fold in almond mixture.

Spread batter evenly in prepared pan. Bake until toothpick inserted
into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Run small sharp knife
around pan sides if necessaryto loosen cake. Slide cake on parchment
onto rack. Cool.

Slide cake on parchment onto work surface. Loosen cake from parchment
using heavy large knife as aid. Sift powdered sugar over cake. Invert
onto cookie sheet. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and invert onto
another parchment sheet. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large
bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in Grand Marnier. Add pastry cream
1/4 cup at a time, beating after each addition until just blended.

Spread half of buttercream over cake, leaving 1/2-inch border.
Starting at 1 long side, roll up cake jelly roll fashion. Arrange
seam side down on parchment. Set aside 1/2 cup buttercream; spread
remaining buttercream over cake. Cut 2 inches off each end of cake,
cutting on diagonal. Transfer cake to platter. Attach ends to top of
cake, forming branches. Spread reserved 1/2 cup buttercream over cake
ends and seams. Cover and refrigerate at least 1 hour to firm
buttercream. (Cake can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and
refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature 20 minutes before
serving.)

Arrange pine twigs on cake and on platter. Garnish with cranberries.
Uploaded 29 December 1991 by Lon Hall

Posted on Compuserve MM by Cathy Svitek

