Title: Fashions in Tapioca Cream
Categories: Dessert
Yield: 6 servings
30    STYLES TO PICK FROM
With quick-cooking tapioca or any of the 3 packaged prepared tapioca
puddings, making dessert is easy.

Tapioca Cream, Buffet Style. Place bowl of fluffy tapioca cream on
chop plate or platter. Around it, arrange just-thawed frozen
pineapple chunks, Bing cherries, bananas on half shell. Garnish with
mint and dried apricots (plumped for 10 min. in strainer over boiling
water).

Marbled Cream. Into sherbet or tall glasses, spoon tapioca cream, in
layers, with one of these:

Melted semisweet-chocolate pieces, chopped walnuts Canned crushed
pineapple, flavored with peppermint extract, then tinted green Cut-up
oranges and snipped fresh mint Brown sugar and butter, melted until
syrupy Melted currant jelly, tossed with coconut Canned whole-fruit
apricot nectar or strained peaches (baby pack), flavored with almond
extract Canned cranberry sauce, mixed with slivered almonds

Frosted Tapioca. After spooning tapioca cream into dessert dishes,
spoon on one of these: Strawberry, chocolate, or cherry-vanilla ice
cream Just-thawed quick-frozen strawberries or raspberries Whipped
cream, topped with snipped gumdrops Crushed peanut brittle or
peppermint candy Snipped dates, or dried figs, and chopped nuts,
moistened with thawed frozen orange-juice concentrate Shredded
coconut with grated orange rind Pink rhubarb sauce

Tapioca Ripple. Fold any of these into tapioca: Cut-up maraschino
cherries and snipped marshmallows, mixed with whipped cream
Green-tinted coconut and canned pineapple tidbits Drained canned Bing
cherries Salted peanuts, bit of chocolate or butterscotch sauce
Chopped unpared red apple Raspberry, strawberry, or peach jam or
preserves

