Title: Pepper, Red, history
Categories: Vegetable, Chilies, Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
PEPPER, RED (Capsicum frutescens {C.annuum}); Red Pepper and Cayenne;
native to tropical America and West Indies; known in pre- Inca days;
Columbus found hot red peppers in Cuba and introduced them to Europe;
fruit of pepper plant; has no relation to Black and White pepper; red
pepper available crushed and ground; Cayenne available ground; ground
red pepper and cayenne are available as a blend; orange-red to deep
red in color; has a hot, pungent flavor; use with caution; in some
sections of the United States whole red pepper may be purchased as
Chili Tepines. USES....Both Cayenne and Red pepper are widely used in
Mexican and Italian dishes. Use to season meats, sea food, deviled
eggs, appetizers, soups and chowders, tomato aspic, cottage and cream
cheese, cheese dishes, sauces, gravy, salad dressing, pickles,
poultry, game, vegetables, spaghetti sauce, tamales, curried

dishes, creamed dishes, ceviche, cheese straws or wafers, dips,
spreads for canapes, sauces for sea food appetizers, tomato juice
cocktail, bloody marys, omelettes, souffles, croquettes, tamale pie,
guacamole, barbecued beef and pork.  Crushed Red Pepper is
particularly important in pickling, chowders, gumbos, spaghetti
sauce, pizza sauce and in making sausage. SUGGESTED AMOUNTS TO USE IN
VARIOUS DISHES CAYENNE AND RED PEPPER dash - 1/4tsp to 1 pounds
shrimp dash - 1/8 tsp to 6 eggs - stuffed, scrambled or for
omelettes. dash - 1/8 tsp in 1/2 cup butter for basting chicken or
fish or to use over vegetables. CRUSHED RED PEPPERS 1/8 - 1 tsp to 1
pound ground beef 1/8 - 1/4 tsp in 2 cups pizza or spaghetti sauce 1
~ 2 tsp to 4 pints tomato relish, mixed pickles or dilled green
beans. A GOOD RULE TO FOLLOW IS TO USE A DASH TO 1/8 TSP IN MOST
RECIPES FOR 4 SERVING UNLESS EXTREMELY HOT FOOD IS DESIRED.  INCREASE
TO SUIT INDIVIDUAL TASTE. Origin: Spices of the World Cookbook, by
McCormick Shared by: Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-31-95

