Title: Toddlers & Eating
Categories: Information, Kids
Yield: 1 servings  Try to relax at mealtime. Food preferences change often at this age;
a food rejected one day may be accepted a few days later. Keep
offering a variety of foods from each of the four basic food groups.
Serve small portions; toddlers have small appetites. By discouraging
constant snacking, you may increase a toddler's interest in meals.
Instead of making a fuss over spilled or not eaten, praise your child
when he does eat well. Set a good example by your own food choices;
foods you enjoy will seem more appealing to your toddler.

Remember to bring your sense of humor to the table. Now is a good
time to begin teaching simple manners; encourage your toddler to say
"please" and "thank you." Decide what rules about eating are
essential - no feet on the table, no talking while you chew, or
whatever - and let other things go.

HINTS: Present food in different ways; try arranging a plate of fruit
snacks into a face for example. Talk about Peter Rabbit and other
story characters who like nutritious food such as vegetables. Let
your child make choices, such as between two kinds of juices. While
helping you child eat, here is a cute little rhyme to sing, "Through
the teeth, Past the gums, Look out tummy, Here it comes!" *From
Toddler Time book by Laurie Krasny Brown* -Posted for you by Michelle
Bruce Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-09-95

