Title: What to Do about Gas Caused by a Lowfat High Fiber Diet ^
Categories: Healthy, Side dish
Yield: 1 ----------
1 x  Text File
Thanks to a new product, yo uno longer have to give up beans,
broccoli, bran and other vegetables and grains that are staples in a
healthy, lowfat, highfiber diet. There is a new product on the market
called BEANO. It is actually a fod additive, not a drug. It
eliminates intestional gas associated with a hig fiber diet. BEANO
comes in an eyedropper-like container and looks and tastes like soy
sauce. At mealtime, you add a few drops to your first bite of the
culprit food. Since heat deactivates the enzyme in BEANO, the food
can't be too hot and you can't cook with it. Intestional gas usually
occurs when you have undigested sugars in your bowel. All foods
contain sugars. Two examples would be the fructose in fruit and the
lactose in milk. Many of these are easily broken down, but certain
others, especially olligosaccharides found in beans, bran and some
vegetables, pass through undigested because we lack enough of the
enzymes needed to break them down. Once in the bowel, intestional
bacteria metabolize the sugar and release the hydrogen and carbon
dioxide. Although the gasses are oderless, they pick up odors from
fats and protiens in the bowel. BEANO contains a;pha-galactosidase,
an enzyme that breaks apart the troublesome suars. However, BEANO
doesn't work on all foods. For instance, it's ineffictive on milk and
dairy products. People who have problems with these foods must use
the enzyme called lactase, found in LACTAID and similar products.
BEANO is available in the antacid section of your supermarket or
drugstore. If you cna't find it, ask the paharmacist. A 75-serving
size costs about $8.95. Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN
0-466-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn Shaw 2-95.

Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-21-95

