Title: Bagels History
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
BAGELS HISTORY
==============
The Bagel, the roll with a hole, is golden brown and crusty on the
outside, soft and tender on the inside. Bagels are low in calories,
270 calories per 3 ounce bagel. The first bagel rolled into the world
in 1683 when a local baker wanted to pay tribute to Jan Sovretsky,
the King of Poland. King Janhad just saved the people of Austria from
an onslaught of Turkish invaders. The King was a great horseman, and
the baker decided to shape the yeast dough into an uneven circle
resembling a stirrup. The Austrian word for "Stirrup" is beugel. In
Poland bagels are officially sanctioned as an appropriate gift for
any woman in childbirth. BAGEL TIPS: FREEZING: After buying your
fresh bagels, you can slice them and place them in a plastic freezer
bag. You can hold them for months,and when ready, go directly into
the toaster. REJUVENATING: If your bagels are several days old and
you did not have them in the freezer, you may freshen them up by
toasting orputting them in an oven for a few minutes. STORING: When
storing bagels, make sure they are cooled before putting in a plastic
bag, or they may sweat and become soggy. MAKING BAGEL CHIPS: Slice
bagels into very thin rings. Arrange "chips" in a single layer on
ungreased baking sheet. Bake until"chips" are browned and crisp. If
desired, sprinkle with garlicsalt, plain salt, onion salt, or
parmesan cheese during the last few minutes of baking time. Ann
Landers On Bagel Safety: HOW TO PROPERLY SLICE A BAGEL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ The following appeared in Ann Landers'
June 11, 1995 column: Dear Readers: Would you believe that the
greatest under-reported injury of our time is hand cuts from slicing
bagels? The authority for this is Mark Smith, head of George
Washington Hospital's Department of Emergency Medicine in the
nation's capital.Smith has an explanation for all those folks who
come in, often in their pajamas, with blood dripping from their
wounds. He says, "The bagel is inherently unstable because it is
round. In fact, there are two unstable surfaces - the knife against
the bagel and the bagel against the table."Never stand a bagel on end
and try to slice it. It is equally dangerous to hold the bagel in
your hand and attempt to cut it in half. The safe way is this: Place
the bagel flat on a hard and stable surface. Put the hand NOT doing
the cutting on top, to steady it. Take a sharp knife and cut halfway
down the bagel, slicing horizontally, until you are at least halfway
through. Then, place the bagel on end, and finish slicing it in half
* This information came from L.A. Wilson, who signed himself, "A
Buffalo Bagel Lover." So, thank you, Mr. Wilson, from Ann Landers, a
Chicago bagel lover.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   08-02-95

