Title: Noche Buena (Cuban Christmas Eve dinner)
Categories: Meats, Caribbean, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------FROM: BOB SPRINGER--------------------------
Roast pork stars in the traditional "Noche Buena" dinner in Cuban
homes on Christmas Eve.  The whole family gathers together for a big
dinner where the roast is surrounded by yuca in mojo, moro, platanos
(plantains) both "maduro y verde". What sets this pork roast apart
from others is the seasoning.  The unique combination of garlic,
oregano, and sour orange juice gives the pork a crisp, tasty crust
and a sharpness which is a nice counterpoint to the juicy, fatty
meat. This delicious roast is a breeze to prepare. Make a paste of
crushed garlic, salt, and oregano. Make small slashes all over the
outside of the roast. Rub the paste into the slashes. Rub salt all
over the outside of the pork. Pour the juice of 10 to 12 sour oranges
over roast and marinate for 24 hours in the refrigerater. Cover roast
with aluminum foil and place in a pre-heated 350~F. oven. Cook 30
minutes/pound or until meat begins to seperate from the bone. Remove
foil 30 minutes before roast is done to give a crisp crust. Saute
more garlic in a little of the drippings and add sour orange juice to
make a sauce for the roast. No sour oranges? No problema! Commercial
brands of this mojo can be found in supermarkets in areas with a
Cuban population or you can make an acceptable substitute with fresh
lemons and grapefruit. This roast is a tasty way to say "Feliz
Navidad". Sour orange sauce is available from "Chez Alberto" 2356 W.
78th St. Hialeah, FL. (305) 362-6656

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   08-12-95

