Title: Pad Thai Part Ii
Categories: Thai
Yield: 6 servings
MERRILL
1. Soak noodles for 20-25 minutes in enough warm water to cover them.
They should be flexible and soft, but not so soft that they can be
mashed easily with the fingers. Later cooking in liquid will soften
them more. Drain them thoroughly in a colander while preparing the
other ingredients. Traditionally they are left in full-length
strands, but you may cut them into 8" lengths if you find it easier
to stir-fry then that way. 2. Peel and devein the shrimp leaving the
tails intact (or remove if preferred). Slice chicken, pork into 1/8"
strips 1 to 2" long. 3. Mix the fish sauce, sugar, vinegar, and
paprika in a bowl and stir until the sugar dissolves. Set aside.
Slice green onions both the green and white parts, diagonally into
1-1/2" long pieces. Set aside. 4. Heat a wok, add the oil and swirl
over the surface. Add the garlic and stir fry until light golden. Add
the meat and stir-fry until shrimp is pink. If using chicken or pork
stir-fry until pink disappears. Add the noodles and toss lightly to
coat with oil and the distribute meat and garlic (I often do this in
a larger pot since things tend to come out of the wok.) 5. Add the
liquid from step 3 and bring it to a boil rapidly, gently folding the
noodles without breaking them. Reduce heat to medium and boil the
mixture, folding frequently until the noodles have absorbed the
liquid (I find a pasta server works great for this step.) 6. Lift the
noodles gently from one side of the wok. Pour a little oil along the
side of the wok, then break the egg ad slip it into the oil. Break
the yolk and cover the egg with the noodles immediately. Repeat this
on the opposite side with the other egg. Allow eggs to cook
undisturbed, over moderate heat until they are set and almost dry.
Additional oil may by added if the eggs or the noodles begin to stick
to the wok. 7. When the eggs are set and almost dry, fold them gently
but rapidly into the noodles. Try not to break the noodles, which
will be soft and fragile at this point. An effective way is to insert
the scoop under the eggs, lift it through, and fold the mixture over.
Continue the lifting and folding motion until the eggs are broken up
and well distributed. 8. Add the green onions (and bean sprouts if
you prefer them mixed in) and toss the entire mixture quickly and
gently, still avoiding breaking the noodles. Cook for about 2 minutes
or until onions are tender. 9. Take a large platter spread with bean
sprouts (if you left them out above). Spread Pud Thai from wok over
top. Sprinkle ground chilies (see note) and ground peanuts over the
top and squeeze lime over the top. Or serve toppings separately for
each diner to add according to taste.

Variation: Omit shrimp pork and or chicken and ignore instructions for
them. Substitute 1/4 pound tofu and 1/4 pound dried shrimp. Put the
tofu on a triple layer of paper towels, cover it with another layer
of triple towels, put a plate on top of that and a 2-pound can on the
plate. Let stand for 20-30 minutes to press out

===============   Reply   37 of Note    1 ================= Board:
FOOD SOFTWARE Subject:    Z-MM THAI #2 100 To:
Date:    02/02 From:   BGMB90B ELAINE
FOOD BB Topic:
BGMB90B ELAINE RADIS
RADIS Time: 11:00 PM MM: CHICKEN WITH LEMON GRASS

:
Recipe By

