Title: HERB VINEGAR-BEV
Categories: Mixes
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Fresh herbs  OR USE
1/3 c  Dried herbs
1 qt Vinegar
Place herbs in a large jar or bottle and pour vinegar over them. Set
the jar or bottle in a sunny window for two weeks, turning regularly.
The heat of the sun will extract flavor fromthe herbs. If you are
going to used the herbed vinegar immediately after the sun process
there is no need to filter it.  If you are planning to keep it for
several months, strain the herbs and pour the vinegar through a
coffee filter and into a clean bottle. Add one or two fresh springs
of the herb or herbs used in the vinegar. An even quicker way is to
heat the vinegar to boiling point, remove from heat, and pour over
herbs.  Let steep (like tea) until cool. Strain through a coffee
filter to remove the herbs, and bottle with one or two fresh sprigs
as above.  Several sources recommend White Wine Vinegar or Rice Wine
Vinegar as a base.  Regarless of the chioce, quality is of the
essence. SOME FLAVORED VINEGARS AND POSSIBLE USES Basil - tomatoes,
pasta salads, vegetable salads. Chives & Chive blossoms - for a hint
of onion Dill - fish, potato, vegetable salads Fennel - fish &
whatever you want anise flavor Mine - Lamb & for fruit salads &
desserts Nasturtium flowers & leaves - a peppery taste Tarragon -
salads & chicken dishes Drying herbs works very well for me,
especially when I get more than I can use fresh. To dry them I pick
out any damaged leaves or blossoms, check for bugs, always know my
sources - to protect against spray or systemic insecticide and tie
them loosely in bunches with string, and hang them upside down in a
well-ventilated, sunny spot I have in the opening between my kitchen
and dining area. I've also had really good luck keeping fresh herbs,
laid out on a strong paper towel, rolled gently like a jelly roll,
and place inside a ziplock bag, then placed in the crisper of the
refrigerator. These last weeks for me.

:
Recipe By

