Title: HERB & SPICE BLENDS FOR GIFTS
Categories: Mixes
Yield: 1 Servings
See directions
To present as gifts, pack mixes into small jars with lids and labels.
Tie jars onto a cookbook filled with herb and spice recipes. Herbs
will keep for 6 months, tightly closed, in a cool, dry place. HERB
AND SPICE BLENDS (Makes 1/3 cup of each blend)  For Beef:  Mix 1
tablespoon coarsely ground black pepper, 1 tablespoon red pepper
flakes, 2-1/2 tablespoons garlic powder and 1 tablespoon dried minced
onions. For Fish: Mix 2 tablespoons dried dillweed, 2 tablespoons
crumbled bay leaves and 2 tablespoons freeze-dried chives. For Fruit
Pie, Spice Cakes and Cookies: Mix 2 tablespoons ground cinnamon, 1
tablespoon ground nutmeg, 1 tablespoon ground mace, 1 tablespoon
ground allspice, 2 teaspoons ground cloves and 2 teaspoons ground
cardamom. For Vegetables: Mix 2 tablespoons dried thyme, 2
tablespoons dried oregano and 2 tablespoons dried basil. For Chicken:
Mix 2 tablespoons curry powder, 2 tablespoons paprika and 2
tablespoons dried lemon rind. For Tomato Sauce: Mix 2 tablespoons
crumbled basil, 2 tablespoons dried minced onions, 1 tablespoon red
pepper flakes and 1 tablespoon crumbled dried oregano. For Lamb: Mix
1-1/2 tablespoons dried marjoram, 1 tablespoon crumbled dried
rosemary, 1 tablespoon white pepper and 2 tablespoons garlic powder.
Source: The Joy of Christmas Cookbook

:
Recipe By

