Title: HOMEMADE RICOTTA CHEESE
Categories: Mixes
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Next Page
Unlike most other fresh cheeses - cottage and cream cheese, for
example - the  curd  of  this bland, light cheese is formed by the
direct addition of acid to the milk, not by fermentation; the time
required to make it is generally short.  If you haven't used this
Italian favorite before, try it in place of cottage cheese, as well
as in Italian recipes for such dishes as lasagne and manicotti.
For a pleasant light milk dessert, sweeten ricotta slightly/ top
with a sprinkling of grated chocolate or cinnamon. 1- 2 qts regular
milk, 3 tbsp distilled white vinegar OR 1/4 cup strained fresh lemon
juice, Salt, if desired. Pour the milk into a heavy stainless-steel
or enameled saucepan and stir in the vinegar or lemon juice; set the
pot over very low heat and bring the milk very slowly to a simmer  (
200F on a thermometer).  There will be fine beads around the edge of
the milk, which will look foamy but will not appear to be boiling;
remove the pot from the heat and set it, covered, in a spot where the
temperature will remain fairly uniform; between 80 and 100 degrees;
(an unheated oven, without a pilot light, is a good spot) let the
milk stand for about 6 hours or until a solid curd floats above the
liquid (the whey); more or less time  may  be required, depending on
the temperature of the environment and the characteristics of the
milk; line a fine sieve with doubled dampened cheesecloth (or better,
two layers of very fine-meshed nylon curtain netting, dampened) and
set it over a bowl; dump the curds and whey into the sieve and allow
the whey to drain off until the ricotta is yogurtlike; if you want a
firmer cheese, tie the corners of the cloth to form a bag and hang it
up to drain further; (in warm weather, the draining might  be
completed in the refrigerator; when the texture of the cheese is to
your liking, add a little salt (from 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon) if you
wish; store the cheese, covered, in the refrigerator; it will be at
its best after it  has chilled for 24 hours, and it will keep well
for 4 or 5 days. Makes about 1 pound.

:
Recipe By

