Title: KING CAKE -- MFSS86A
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 10 Servings
KING CAKE, BATON ROUGE CAJUN
2 pkg. yeast 1/2 c. lukewarm water 1/2 t. sugar 1 c.
scalded milk 1/2 stick good margarine 3/8 c. sugar 2
t. salt 1 egg 5-6 c. flour Scald milk and add melted
margarine. LET COOL. Soften yeast in water, add 1/2 t.
sugar to yeast.  Let sit 30 seconds to activate yeast.
Add yeast mixture, eggs, sugar and salt to COOLED
milk.  Add flour a little at at time until you have a
thick dough. Let rest 10 minutes, knead 20 minutes.
Divide dough into two portions. Roll one portion out
into a rectangle until dough is approx. 1/2 in. thick.
Spread softened butter onto dough. Sprinkle with a
mixture of 3/4 c. sugar and 2 t. cinnamon. Roll dough
up starting at widest end and them form a circle and
squeeze together at opening ends of circle. Carefully
place on cookie sheet. Let rise till double and bake
350 deg. oven for 20-25 min. Make confectioner sugar
thin icing and divide into three bowls.  Color each
icing bowl, purple, green and yellow. If you have a
plastic baby doll put it inside the bake cake.If not,
some true Cajuns add a red bean inside the cake.
FROST the cake with the three different colors. Now I
sometimes make a cream cheese filling. Simply mix
soften cream cheese (16 oz) with 1 c. confectioner
sugar and 1 t. almond extract. Instead of the
butter/cinnamon sugar filling, I put this cream cheese
filling.  IT IS VERY VERY GOOD. Here in Louisiana,it
is traditional that whoever get the baby or bean when
served the cake has to bring the cake to the next
party or office coffee shop. LAISSEZ LES BON TEMPS
ROULLER!

