Title: KURINOYE FILE SO SMORCHKANI(STUFFED CHICKEN B
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 2 Servings
2 c  Chicken Stock Or Canned
1 tb Fresh Dill -- Finely
Chopped
~- Salt And Freshly Gro 1 ounce Dried Morels -- Rinsed
Whole Boneless
Pepper -- To Taste 1 large
Chicken 1/3 cup Dry White Wine -- Breast; (About 1 1/2
2 t 2 tablespoons Unsalted Butter -- Chilled And 7
ounces Ground Chicken Meat Into Pieces 1 large Egg --
Slightly Beaten 2 teaspoons Dry Vermouth 2 tablespoons
Fresh Parsley -- Chopped

Bring 1/2 cup of the chicken stock to a boil and pour
over the morels in a heatproof bowl.  Soak for 1 hour,
then drain, (Reserve the liquid) and chop fine. Strain
the soaking liquid through a coffee filter and set
aside. Place each chicken breast half between two
sheets of waxed paper and pound with the flat side of
a meat pounder until thin. In a small bowl, combine
the ground chicken, egg, 1 tb of the parsley, the dill
and 2 tbls of the chopped morels.  Season with salt
and pepper and mix well. Place half of the filling
along the long side of each breast half, tuck in the
ends and roll up. Secure with a wooden toothpick.
Place the chicken rolls in a medium-sized saucepan and
add the morel soaking liquid, the remaining broth, the
wine and the remaining morels. Bring the liquid to a
boil, then reduce the heat to low, and partially
cover, poaching the chicken until cooked through, 20
minutes. With a slotted spoon, remove the chicken to a
heated platter.  Over medium-high heat, reduce the
poaching liquid to 1/2 cup, 15 minutes.  Add the cream
and cook for 7 minutes longer. Remove the pan from the
heat and whisk the butter and the vermouth until well
blended in the liquid.  Stir in the remaining parsley
and season with salt and pepper to taste.

To Serve, cut the rolls into 1/2-inch slices and spoon
the sauce over them.

:
Recipe By

From: Favorite Fruitcakes By Moira Hodg

