Title: LOW FAT DIP BASES
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM------------------INGREDIENTS/PREPARATION-----------------------
Sour cream - 1000 calories/pt.  Cream cheese - 850 calories/ 8 oz.
Mock sour cream I: combine in blender 2 cups cottage cheese and 1/3
cup buttermilk. Mock sour cream II: 2 cups cottage cheese, 2
tablespoons lemon juice, 1/2 cup skim milk. Blender. Mock sour cream
III: 2 c. dry curd cottage cheese, 1 cup plain yogurt. Blender. Mock
sour cream IV: put plain low-fat yogurt in a paper coffee filter cone
and allow it to drain in the refrigerator for several hours until it
reaches the right thickness. Mock sour cream V: combine 1 cup sour
half & half and 1 cup plain low-fat yogurt.  Blend. Cream cheese base
I: combine 1 softened 3 oz. pkg. cream cheese with 1 cup part-skim
ricotta cheese. Blender. Cream cheese base II: combine 1 (8 oz.) pkg.
neufchatel cheese with skim milk in covered blender. Cream cheese
base III: combine 8 ounce package room temperature low-fat or
imitation cream cheese with 1 cup skim milk. Blender. Cream cheese
base IV: combine 3 ounce package cream cheese with 1 cup large curd
cottage cheese and 1/2 cup skim milk in blender. AVOID most
"nondairy" synthetic sour cream or cream cheese substitutes made with
oil. The fat usually used is highly saturated coconut oil and these
products may be as fattening and cholesterol-dangerous as the real
thing. Source: Magic Chef Cookbook CDROM

Submitted By PAT PATE <PATPATE@TENET.EDU>  On   SUN, 6 NOV 1994 021900
~0600 (CST)

