Title: A Very Low-Fat (VLF) Thanksgiving Meal (Part 1)
Categories: Low cal/fat, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
============================
-==========
A VERY LOW-FAT (VLF)
-THANKSGIVING MEAL
A VLF Thanksgiving, It can be done. Here's my menu and recipes from
last year: MENU ==== BLACK BEAN DIP WITH TORTILLA CHIPS CRUDITES WITH
VEGETABLE CREAM CHEESE DIP PUREE OF YELLOW SQUASH SOUP PANMARINO
MARINATED ROAST ASPARAGUS & GREEN BEANS WITH GARLIC AND ONIONS TURKEY
STUFFING MASHED POTATOES MUSHROOM BRANDY GRAVY PUMPKIN SWIRL
CHEESECAKE OH, YEAH, AND THAT BIG BIRD (OPTIONAL) [Remember to eat
the breast meat, no skin My trick to remembering how big 3 ounces is:
it's about as big as the palm of my hand; your mileage may vary] - -
~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - BLACK BEAN DIP WITH
GARLIC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (adapted from December 1993 _Food &
Wine_) 1 each 19-oz can black beans, drained & rinsed 2 large garlic
cloves, coarsely chopped 2 T coarsely chopped onion 2 T coarsely
chopped fresh cilantro, plus additional sprigs for garnish 1 T fresh
lime juice 1 small fresh chili pepper (your choice, pick your pain
threshold) 1/4 tsp. ground cumin 1/4 tsp. thyme X salt and freshly
ground pepper In a food processor, combine all the ingredients except
cilantro sprigs. Add 2T water and process until smooth. Transfer the
dip to a serving bowl, garnish with cilantro sprigs, and serve with
your favorite fat-free tortilla chips. CRUDITES WITH VEGETABLE CREAM
CHEESE DIP ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This doesn't
count as a recipe, but slice your favorite veggies into strips, and
serve with Alpine Lace flavored fat-free cream cheese of your choice.
I used red & yellow bell peppers, green onions, carrots and mushrooms
PUREE OF YELLOW SQUASH SOUP ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (adapted from
Mollie Katzen's _Still Life with Menu_) 1 pound yellow squash
(crookneck) ++ about 6 small ones 2 C chopped onion 2 med. cloves
garlic, minced X cooking spray 2 tsp. minced fresh thyme (or 1/2 t
dried) 2 tsp. fresh sage, chopped (or 1/2 t dried) 1-2 tsp. minced
fresh basil (or 1/2 t dried) 1 tsp. salt 1 T unbleached white flour
1/2 C dry white wine 2 C skim milk X freshly ground black pepper

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-21-95

