Title: Follow The Golden Rules To Long Life
Categories: Information, Healthy
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------------------------------------------------
MMMMM----------------FOLLOW THE GOLDEN RULES TO L---------------------
MMMMM---------------------------------------------------------------
--=-=-=-=-=-=
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Follow these 20 "wellness" facts and you have a better chance of
living a longer and healthier life.
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-= 1.
NEVER RETIRE. Michaelangelo was carving the Rondanini just before he
died at 89. Verdi finished his opera Falstaff at 80. And 80-year old
Goya scrawled on a drawing, "I am still learning." 2. EIGHTY-FIVE
PER-CENT (85%) OF LUNG CANCERS ARE CAUSED BY SMOKING. But among
non-smokers the risk of one form of lung cancer, adenocarcinoma,
increases with the amount of saturated consumed daily. The "JOURNAL
OF THE NATIONAL CANCER SOCIETY" reports this risk can be reduced by a
diet rich in fruits and vegetables especially those high in
beta-carotene. 3. GET A PAP SMEAR IF YOUR A WOMEN. It's not very
complimentary but male physicians do fewer Pap smears. According to
the "NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE" women who have a female
physician are twice as likely to receive Pap smears. They are also
40% more likely to get a mammogram. 4. BUY A CAR WITH AIR BAGS. It is
estimated that if all cars in the U.S. had been equipped with
driver's side air bags about 4,000 people killed last year would have
survived. Air bags increase the chance of surviving a frontal
collision 29%. 5. CHILDREN AGE 6 TO 11 WHO CONSUME NEARLY TWICE THE
800 MILLIGRAM AMOUNT OF CALCIUM DAILY RECOMMENDED FOR (ABOUT FIVE
GLASSES A DAY INSTEAD OF THREE) DEVELOP STRONGER BONES. This protects
them from fractures later in life. 6. We're often told never drink
and drive, but it's also DANGEROUS TO DRINK AND WALK! About half of
adult pedestrians killed in traffic accidents have been drinking. And
more than a third were legally drunk. 7. WEARING THREE-INCH HEELS PUT
76% MORE PRESSURE THE BALL OF THE FOOT THAN GOING BAREFOOT. Even a
two-inch heel increases the pressure to 57%. This extra pressure may
contribute to bunions, hammer toes and other abnormalities. 8. BUY
CANATLOUPES. Half a cantaloupe contains nearly double the amount of
vitamin C than an orange. 9. IF YOU LOVE MEAT AND WORRY ABOUT THE FAT
CONTENT, EAT GAME SUCH AS BUFFALO AND VENISON. A four ounce serving
of buffalo steak contains only 2 grams of fat compared to 10 grams in
a similar amount of sirloin steak. Wild animals normally don't get
fat, and their meat is only slightly marbled. 10. DON'T USE
LAXATIVES. Try increased fiber and prunes for constipation.
Researchers believe prunes contain a substance that stimulates
intestinal contractions. 11. NO ONE ENJOYS HAVING COCKROACHES IN THE
HOUSE. But if you have asthma, they're a special hazard. A study at
the University of Kentucky fund that cockroach allergens cause
asthmatic attacks in about 60% of asthmatics. 12. AVOID PASSIVE
SMOKE. It also kills dogs. A report from the University of Colorado
found that dogs of owners who smoked were at 50% greater risk of
developing lung cancer. Every year smoking kills more North Americans
than died in World War II and Vietnam put together. 13. DON'T DRIVE
AT 3:00 AM SUNDAY MORNING. You are 134 times more likely to die than
if you drive the same distance at noon of Sunday. 14. DON'T LET
FAT-FREE AND LOW-FAT CANDIES FOOL YOU. A report in the "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" claims sales of these products such as jelly beans, licorice
and desserts such as Jell-O are booming. But because it's "low-fat"
doesn't mean you can eat all you want. It's most likely high in sugar
and that means it's a;so high in calories. <<***** Continued Next
Message *****>> ++- * VbReader 2.22 #549 * Growing old is
mandatory++growing up is optional ++- QScan/PCB v1.17b / 01-0348 *
Origin: FidoNet: CRS Online, Toronto, Ontario (1:229/15) From: Sam
Lefkowitz Date: 10-22-95 Subject: Golden Rules (2/2)
======================================================================
==== ==== <<***** Split Message. Part 2 Of 2 *****>> 15. DEVELOP A
LIKING FOR WHOLE WHEAT PITA. Whole wheat pita, like whole wheat bread
is more nutritious than bread made from refined wheat. Pita has
almost no fat and only about 70 to 80 calories per ounce. The average
7 inch pita weighs about 2 ounces and contains only about 150
calories. In contrast abagel or long sandwich roll weighs 4 ounces
and contains 320 calories. 16. THE 40-YEAR OLD MAN WHO DOESN'T
EXERCISE, doesn't wear a seat belt, smokes two packs of cigarettes a
day and is 30% overweight costs twice as much in medical bills as an
other man with healthier habits. 17. DECREASE YOUR EXPOSURE TO SUN.
By age 18 most people have received 50 to 80% of their lifetime
exposures. Excessive exposure to the sun is related to skin
melanomas. 18. EVER YEAR 110,000 NORTH AMERICANS RECEIVE MEDICAL
TREATMENT AFTER CLIMBING A LADDER. Itis usually because the ladder is
not long enough and they step on the top two or three rungs. 19.
PEOPLE WHO TAKE VITAMIN E HAVE UP TO 70% LESS CHANCE OF GETTING
CATARACTS. Vitamin E also decreases the chance of heart attacks by 25
to 50%. 20. STUDIES SHOW THAT MODERATE DRINKERS OF BEER, WINE OR
LIQUOR LIVE LONGER THAN EITHER TEETOTALERS OR HEAVY DRINKERS. Alcohol
helps to oil the blood making it less likely to form a fatal blood
clot. From An Article In The Toronto Sun: "Follow The Golden Rules To
Long Life" written by Dr. Gifford-Jones Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-22-95

