Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Ingredients #2
Categories: Information, Diabetic
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free by Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

Ingredients (cont'd) ***********

Baking Soda: ************ Used by itself, baking soda has no leavening
ability. But used in combination with an acid ingredients, such as a
fruit sweetener, as well as baking powder, it creates carbon dioxide
bubbles which leaven the batter. Since baking soda is usually very
lumpy in the box, it is important to sift it once before measuring,
and then again with the flour. Otherwise the final produce will have
little dark brown spots scattered throughout which can be quite
bitter.

Butter: ******* I prefer to use unsalted butter because of its
wonderful flavour and delicious aroma. By using unsalted butter you
can easily control both the quantity and the quality of salt in
everything you cook or bake. Unsalted butter has a much sorter shelf
life than salted butter and can become rancid in a couple of weeks in
the refrigerator. However, it may be stored for a couple of months in
the freezer. Unless otherwise stated in the recipe, butter should be
used at room temperature for ease in blending with sweetener or other
ingredients. Butter comes in either 1/4 pound sticks or one pound
solids. A stick of butter equals 1/2 cup, 8 tablespoons or 1/4 pound.
Two sticks equal 1 cup, 16 tablespoons, or 1/2 pound. Three sticks
equal 1-1/2 cups, 24 tablespoons, or 3/4 pound. And 4 sticks of
butter are equivalent to the 1 pound solid, and equal 2 cups or 32
tablespoons. One ounce of butter is equivalent to 2 tablespoons.

Carob Powder: ************* Carob is also known as Saint John's
Bread. It is an ideal substitute for cocoa powder or chocolate, as it
is similar in both flavour and colour. Carob, a good source of
calcium, is free of the detrimental effects of caffeine, theobromine,
and calcium oxalate, which are all found in cocoa beans. Carob powder
is low in fat and naturally sweet. When you have a choice, choose
dark roasted carob powder, which gives a richer flavour and colour.
Carob powder can be purchased in natural food stores and should be
stored at room temperature. Carob powder has a tendency to form rock
hard clumps, so be sure to sift it before mixing it with other
ingredients.

CornStarch and Arrowroot: ************************* These two
thickeners create beautiful translucent sauces and glazes. Arrowroot
is recommended for use with acid fruits, as it does not break down
and thin in their presence. Dissolve cornstarch in some of the cool
liquid called for in the recipe. Heat the remaining liquid to the
boiling point. Gradually whisk in the dissolved cornstarch, whisking
constantly while the mixture returns to a boil. Reduce the heat and
simmer for five minutes to stabilize the cornstarch. Remove from the
heat. Cornstarch based mixtures will thicken upon cooling and can be
reheated to return to the desired consistency. Dissolve arrowroot in
some of the cool liquid called for in the recipe. Heat the remaining
liquid just to the boiling point and reduce the heat. Whisk in the
dissolved arrowroot. As soon as the mixture thickens, remove it from
the heat. Don't allow the arrowroot to get too how (about 175
degrees) or it will break down and thin the mixture. Arrowroot
thickened mixtures cannot be reheated and retain their original
consistency. Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-11-95

