Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Ingredients #3
Categories: Information, Diabetic
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free by Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

Ingredients (cont'd) ********************

Dried Fruit: ************ Use naturally dried, unsweetened fruit
found in natural food stores rather than fruit dried with sulfur
dioxide or sweetened with additional sugar.

Eggs: ***** All of these recipes have been formulated using large
eggs. When separating eggs, learn to do it cleanly. That means there
should be no yolk in the whites, and no whites (or very little white)
in with the yolks. The greatest volume can be gotten from eggs that
are brought to room temperature before whipping. However, it is
preferable to begin with chilled whites when you use the following
technique to stiffly whip egg whites.

Egg Whites: To whip whites, place a small portion of the sweetener in
the recipe in with the cold whites right from the beginning. Although
this will slightly retard the whipping action, it will prevent the
whites from over-whipping and becoming dry and difficult to fold into
other mixtures. Begin using a medium high speed for whipping the
whites, once they have whitened, increase the speed to high. The
whites will take a little longer to become stiff this way and there
will be less air beaten into them, producing a slightly less volume,
however, the whites will be stronger and deflate less when folded
into the other ingredients. Salt from the amount in the recipe and/or
a squeeze of fresh lemon juice can be added just before the whipping
is completed both to tighten the structure and stabilize the whites.
For best volume when working with a small number of egg whites, it is
important that the mixing bowl, the whip or the beaters, and the
whites themselves be free of any trace of egg yolk or grease.

Egg Yolks: ********** When preparing cakes, the sweetener and yolks
are often whipped together (without additional heat) beyond the
formation of a ribbon until they are very light and fluffy. This
creates greater volume and a finer texture in finished cakes.

Flour: ****** A point of pride in my adopted state: Montana, with its
long, hot summer days, cool nights and good soil, is the home of most
of the best wheat in the United States. Its wheat is so well known
that many professionals specify Montana wheat for their baking. The
following flours are used in the recipes throughout this book. They
can be purchased in natural food stores, some gourmet stores, and
most supermarkets. Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-09-95

