Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Ingredients #9
Categories: Information, Diabetic
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free by Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

Ingredients (cont'd) ********************

Oil: **** Often oil can be substituted for butter to lower the
cholesterol in baked goods. Canola oil is recommended. It is a
high-quality tasteless oil, high in monounsaturated fats and very low
in saturated fat. It should be stored in a cool place. If you prefer
to use unrefined oils, be careful that their taste is mild enough not
to overwhelm the other ingredients in the recipe. Many delicate
cakes, like the sponge cakes in this book, will be ruined by a too
strong tasting oil (so I once learned, too late). Unrefined oils can
easily become rancid and must be stored in the refrigerator once they
have been opened.

Peaches, Nectarines and Apricots: *********************************
Always use ripe peaches, nectarines, and apricots. If the fruit is
not ripe when you begin, it will not ripen after cooking but will
remain hard and green tasting. Peaches, nectarines and apricots are
usually used peeled. To peel them, bring a pot of water to a boil,
add only a few pieces of fruit at a time to the pot so that the water
continues to boil. Count to 10 and remove the fruit to a bowl of cold
water. Use the point of a small knife to remove the peel. If the peel
does not come off easily, return the fruit to the boiling water for
another couple of seconds and try again.

Peach Extract: ************** My favorite discovery of 1989! You will
find I add a dab of peach extract in many unsuspected places, where
its use heightens and brightens flavours. Naturally flavoured peach
extract is available at many health food stores, or can be purchased
directly from Bickford Laboratories in Cleveland, Ohio
(1-800-283-8322). They require no minimum order.

Pears: ****** Highly flavoured and very perishable, pears are a
wonderful fall and winter fruit. Some of my favorite varieties are
Seckels, Bartletts, Anjous, and Winter Nells. As most pears are
overripe and mealy when they are soft, it is good to know that you
can press a pear gently at the stem end to see if it is ripe. When it
is soft to the touch, the pear is ripe and should be used within the
day (or some people say within the hour!). Do not bake with underripe
pears. They will remain unripe and as hard and thoroughly
disappointing at the end of the baking time as they were at the
beginning. For the least amount of waste, use a vegetable peeler
instead of a knife to peel pears. Tossed in a small amount of lemon
juice diluted with water, pears can be kept from turning brown after
they have been sliced or cut.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-09-95

