Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Ingredients #8
Categories: Information, Diabetic
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free by Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Teton Ranch

Ingredients (cont'd) ********************

Margarine: ********** Margarine is a less expensive, nondairy
alternative to butter. Although margarine has been manufactured to be
similar to butter, it does fall short of butter's taste and texture.
Always use margarine at room temperature unless otherwise directed by
the recipe. Unsalted margarine is preferred so that you can control
the amount and quality of salt in the recipe.

Molasses: ********* All molasses is very high in minerals, but
contains from 35-70 per cent sucrose, even though it has only half
the sweetening power of white sugar. The molasses called for in these
recipes, and the best-tasting, is unsulphured molasses. Unsulphured
molasses is made by concentrating the juice of sun ripened sugar
cane. Sulphured molasses is created as a by-product of refining sugar
cane. It contains sulphur dioxide, which may cause allergic
reactions. A third kind of molasses is very strong-tasting blackstrap
molasses, which is basically a waste product from refining sugar. The
only time I use molasses is in making whole wheat bread and some
spice cookies, where a richer colour and distinct flavour are
desired. Molasses also improves the keeping qualities of breads. If
you prefer not to use molasses at all, you can replace it with an
equal amount of concentrated fruit sweetener.

Nuts: ***** Walnuts, almonds, pecans, and hazelnuts (filberts) are all
prominently featured in many of these recipes, as nuts enhance the
nutritional value as well as the texture, flavour, and appearance of
finished baked goods. I always recommend using toasted nuts unless
otherwise specified in the recipe. To toast nuts, place them in a
single layer on a baking sheet. Bake at 350 degrees for seven to ten
minutes, stirring occasionally. Taste a nut or two to test for
doneness. Over-toasting will make nuts bitter. Cool the nuts before
chopping or grinding. Nuts that will not be used immediately store
well in the refrigerator for a couple of weeks or for a couple of
months in the freezer.

Oats: ***** In these recipes, use only regular rolled oats (also
known as old-fashioned oats). Quick-cooking oats absorb liquids more
quickly and will alter the texture and moistness of any recipes in
which they are used, unless expressly specified.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-09-95

