Title: Paula Wolfert's Cooking Tips
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
None
~ For "instant" peeled, seeded and purÂ‚ed fresh tomatoes, cut
tomatoes in half and grate on the large holes of a box grater.

~ To rid okra of sliminess, wash it in vinegar and salt before
cooking.

~ To take the sharp edge off raw sliced onions, rub salt into them
and wait 4 minutes, then rinse and pat dry.

~ If olives are bitter, put them in a saucepan, cover with water and
boil, then drain. Cover with fresh water and repeat until the
bitterness is gone.

~ Blanch cabbage leaves with an onion the water to reduce the
possibility of gastric irritation.

~ Soak eggplant slices in salted water for 30 minutes before grilling
or frying (2 tbs salt to 2 qt water). Rinse and dry the eggplant
before using.

~ Soak chickpeas for 24 hours for really fine texture and flavor.
Drain, add fresh water and cook, then let them cool in their lightly
salted cooking liquid.

~ Don't store olives in the refrigerator. They're not as good to eat
when cold. Keep them at room temperature in their brine, covered with
oil. Keep wrinkled, black olives in a tightly closed jar in a cool
cupboard.

~ Grind coarse sea salt in a mill. The flavor is more intense, so
you'll need less.

~ Clean out herbs and spices twice a year; they lose their potency
over time.

~ Sear food in a cast-iron skillet for clean, concentrated flavor.

~ Cook stews at low temperature; the surface of the liquid should
barely move. When you simmer very gently, the fat melts out of rich
meats and mingles with the liquid. The dish can then be chilled, and
the fat easily removed.

~ To remove fresh fava beans from the pods, hold the pod in both
hands and twist in opposite direction at one-inch intervals. Peel
fava beans only if they are very large and their skins excessively
tough.

~ To pit cracked olives, spread them on a folded kitchen towel. Hit
each olive with a mallet and remove the pits.

Food and Wine
November 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-07-95

