Title: Poached Fresh Figs in Red Wine (Fichi Freschi in Vino Ros
Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Italian
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM----------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS, SAT 07---------------------
MAKES 6 SERVINGS
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: COOKING VEGETABLES T---------------------
ISBN 0-02-009078-1; 1994
I can eat fresh figs every day when they are in season from July
through the early fall months, but even then I can't seem to get
enough. This is the best way to cook fresh figs- they're only lightly
cooked so you don't lose the fresh taste. They need only a few
minutes to become infused with the flavor of the wine. 1 cup sugar 3
cups dry Italian red wine (such as Chianti or Spanna) 18 fresh ripe
figs 1. Combine the sugar and wine in a large heavy-bottomed
non-aluminum casserole or saucepan that is large enough to hold the
figs in one layer. Place over medium-high heat and cook, stirring,
until the sugar is dissolved. Holding the figs by their stems, place
the figs into the wine-and-sugar mixture. Reduce the heat to medium,
cover the casserole, and cook for 7 to 10 minutes, until the figs are
tender and a deep brown color. 2. Using a slotted spoon, carefully
transfer the figs to a large serving platter. Raise the heat under
the casserole to medium-high and cook for 5 to 7 minutes longer,
until the liquid becomes thick and syrupy. Pour the wine syrup over
the figs and allow to cool to room temperature before serving.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   10-07-95

