Title: Smoking Salmon And Trout Part XIV - Smoking Roes and Live
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 text file  Roes that are immature are best for smoking as they are easier to
handle and less likely to rupture.

Hard [Female] Roe: Fresh, frozen or salted roes may be used for
smoking. Salted hard roes must be freshened in several changes of
water for up to 24 hours. Frozen roes must be thawed before salting
for smoking. Fresh and frozen-thawed roe must be brined first. Use 70
deg sal brine [2 cups salt to 2 qts water.] Brining time varies from
5 minutes for small roes to 30 minutes for 1 lb roes. Drain. Smoke at
90 deg F at medium density for 2 to 6 hours according to size [4 to
12 hours for natural draft].

Soft [Male] Roe or Milt: Because they are soft, they benefit from
conditioning before smoking. Large soft roes around 1/2 lb need about
30 min in a 70 deg sal brine before conditioning. Small ones do not.
Conditioning consists of simmering them in salted water until they
are firm enough to handle. Drain before smoking. smoke as for hard
roes.

Smoking livers: Remove the gall bladder carefully without breaking by
slicing off the portion of the liver it is attached to. Condition
them by dropping them into boiling salted water until they change
color and get firmer. Brine larger livers in 70 deg sal brine for 10
to 45 min. Drain. they will still be sticky so oil them so they don't
stick to the smoking trays. Smoke at 90 deg with dense smoke for 1 to
3 hrs [or 2 to 5 hrs for natural draft]. Extracted from: Smoking
Salmon & Trout by Jack Whelan. Published by: Airie Publishing, Deep
Bay, B.C. ISBN: 0-919807-00-3 Posted by: Jim Weller
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   11-03-95

