Title: Stuff To Eat, Drink & Etiquette (Part 7)
Categories: Blank
Yield: 1 servings
FORBIDDING FRUITS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
APPLES AND PEARS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
STUFF TO EAT, DRINK &
-ETIQUETTE (PART 7)
============================
-============
At a dinner, an apple or pear is picked up with your hand and placed
on your plate. If you can acquire the knack, it's a special talent,
by all means peel in a spiral fashion. If this proves too difficult,
place the fruit on a dessert plate, halve it, core and cut it into
smaller pieces, then eat it with a fork and a fruit knife. You can
pick up the smaller pieces with your fingers if the meal situation is
more informal. AVOCADO ~~~~~~~ An avocado served in its shell is
eaten with a spoon, and may come with salad dressing in the cavity.
If it is sliced on a plate or in a salad, eat it with a fork. BANANAS
~~~~~~~ If a banana is served at the dinner table, peel it, cut it
with a knife (a fruit knife if one is available) and eat it with a
fork. In all informal situations, picnics, the beach, peel it partway
and eat it as a monkey would. BERRIES AND CHERRIES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Go with the flow. Because there are so many ways
to eat these fruits, you can take your pick. Generally, though, eat
berries with a spoon, whether they have cream on them or not.
Cherries are eaten by hand. Spit the pits out discreetly into your
tightly cupped hand and deposit them on your dessert plate. FIGS ~~~~
Fresh figs served as an appetizer with prosciutto are eaten, skin and
all, with a knife and fork. If the little stem is still on the fig,
cut it off (it's a tough chew if you don't). As a dessert, quartered
and drenched in orange juice or cream, figs are eaten with a fork and
spoon. And served plain, they are halved and eaten with a knife and
fork. GRAPEFRUITS, ORANGES AND TANGERINES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Halved grapefruit is eaten with a
teaspoon or a pointed grapefruit spoon. At informal meals, the juice
can be carefully squeezed out onto the spoon. There are two ways to
peel an orange; both begin with a sharp knife. Method one: a
continuous spiral. The second method is to slice off the two ends and
cut the skin in vertical strips. Once the fruit is peeled, sections
can be pulled apart. If the sections are small, eat them in a single
bite; if they are large, use a dessert fork and knife to cut and then
eat. Provided it's been precut, a large orange can also be eaten like
a grapefruit, with a grapefruit spoon or teaspoon. Tangerines are
peeled by hand and eaten segment by segment. You may want to peel off
and discard the white pulpy covering, especially if it's particularly
thick. GRAPES ~~~~~~ Seedless grapes are no problem: Just eat them
one by one. If the grapes do have seeds, place each grape in your
mouth, chew, swallow the meat and allow any seeds to drop into your
almost-closed fist. To skin a grape easily, hold the stem end against
your mouth, then squeeze the grape between your thumb and forefinger.
It will pop, pulp and juice into your mouth. Leave the skins in your
hand to put on your plate. MANGO AND PAPAYA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A whole
mango should be sliced in half (lengthwise, like a bagel) with a
sharp fruit knife, then cut into quarters. Hold each piece down
against your plate with a fork, skin-side up, and pull the skin away.
The mango can then be cut up and eaten with a spoon. You may also be
served one that has already been, halved, perhaps, with the stone
removed but the skin intact. Eat this like an avocado, with a

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-18-95

