Title: Stuff To Eat, Drink & Etiquette (Part 8)
Categories: Blank
Yield: 1 servings
HANDS ON
~~~~~~~~
BACON
~~~~~
STUFF TO EAT, DRINK &
-ETIQUETTE (PART 8)
============================
-============
The rule is simply that bacon with any fat on it should be eaten with
a knife and fork. If it is very crisp, crumble it with a fork and eat
it with your fingers. BREAD ~~~~~ Handling bread gracefully is the
test of a well-bred diner, but you can pass with flying colors as
long as you remember to break slices of bread, rolls and muffins in
half or in small pieces before eating and buttering them. Small
biscuits do not have to be broken. Use your own butter knife and the
butter on your plate; buttering should be done on the plate or just
above it. Keep the butter knife slightly to the right, with the
handle off the edge to keep it clean. Butter hot toast and muffins
immediately. You don't have to break bread sticks, which can be
buttered on one side. Cut Danish pastries (sweet rolls) into halves
or quarters and butter each piece as you eat it. FINGER FOODS
~~~~~~~~~~~~ If you have any doubts, always follow the cue of your
host or hostess. And remember: When finger foods are offered on a
platter, place them on your plate before you put them into your
mouth. The following foods are meant to be eaten with the hands: corn
on the cob, spareribs, clams and oysters on the half shell, lobsters,
sandwiches, dry cakes, cookies, certain fruits (see individual
listings), crisp bacon, frogs' legs, chicken wings and bones in
informal situations, shoestring potatoes or small French fries, and
radishes, olives and celery. SANDWICHES ~~~~~~~~~~ Always keep in
mind that small sandwiches and canap&eacute;s are eaten with your
fingers, and that large ones should be cut before lifting. Any hot
sandwich served with a gravy requires a knife and fork. Playing with
Your Food - Bon Appetit Gourmet

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-18-95

