Title: Stuff To Eat, Drink & Etiquette (Part 3)
Categories: Blank
Yield: 1 servings
BUTTER
~~~~~~
ADDED ATTRACTIONS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
STUFF TO EAT, DRINK &
-ETIQUETTE (PART 3)
============================
-============
To butter breads, rolls, biscuits or toast, use a knife and small
pieces of butter on small pieces of bread. Do not butter vegetables,
because it's an insult to the cook. (See listings for corn on the cob
and potatoes for specific instructions.) CONDIMENTS ~~~~~~~~~~
Horseradish, mint jelly, currant jelly, mustard, apple butter and
cranberry sauce are spooned onto your plate next to the meat or fowl.
You incorporate them onto your fork with a bit of the meat or fowl.
Liquid sauces, such as mint, cherry sauce or apricot duck sauce, are
to be poured judiciously right onto the meat. A small amount is
preferable, so that you don't overwhelm the taste of the meat.
Jellies, jams and conserves for rolls and biscuits are to be spooned
onto the side of your butter plate and spread on small pieces of the
bread or roll with a knife. If a spoon isn't available for serving,
wipe your knife on the edge of the plate before touching the jelly in
the serving jar or bowl. For curried dishes, such condiments as
peanuts, coconut and chutney can be spooned onto your plate and mixed
in with the curry. Chutney may also be eaten unmixed, as an
accompaniment. GARNISHES ~~~~~~~~~ When garnishes such as celery,
olives, radishes etc. are passed to you on a tray, use the serving
spoon (if one is provided) to place a portion on your butter plate.
If there is no butter plate, use your main dish. Never put the
garnishes directly into your mouth. If you want to salt them, shake
some salt onto the plate next to them and, using your fingers, dip
and eat. Olives are taken whole into the mouth, and pits are removed
into a tightly cupped fist and put on your butter plate. Pickles are
eaten with your fingers when they accompany a sandwich. When served
with meat, they are eaten with a knife and fork. Dill, parsley and
watercress are eaten with a fork as part of the meal. They may be
eaten with fingers but never when they are covered with salad
dressing or sauce. Thin lemon slices are decoration; lemon wedges or
halves are meant to be squeezed. Gently pierce the pulp of the larger
pieces with a fork, and squeeze the segment over the food to be
seasoned with one squirting. (Some restaurants cover lemon halves
with cheesecloth in order to avoid stray squirts.) GRAVY ~~~~~ A
light touch is the key. Gravy or sauce should never be poured or
ladled onto everything on your plate at random; rather, it should be
used sparingly, and exclusively on the dish for which it was
intended. If you wish to soak up the extra gravy (and it's a
compliment to the cook to do so), put a small piece of bread into the
sauce and retrieve it with your fork &#173; tines down, and one small
piece of bread at a time HONEY ~~~~~ To handle honey gracefully, all
you need to do is twist it onto a spoon, the thinner the honey, the
more rapid the motion, and then drop it onto your butter plate. SALT
AND PEPPER ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Add salt and pepper only after you taste
the food. It is an insult to the cook to add either beforehand. If
there is a saltcellar (a small open bowl of salt), use the spoon
that's in it; if there isn't a spoon, use the tip of a clean knife.
Anything to be dipped in salt should be put on your butter plate or
on the edge of your dinner plate. If you are provided with an
individual saltcellar, you can take a pinch with your fingers. ++- *
VbReader 2.22 #549 * Growing old is mandatory++growing up is optional
++- QScan/PCB v1.17b / 01-0348 * Origin: FidoNet: CRS Online,
Toronto, Ontario (1:229/15) From: Sam Lefkowitz Date: 10-18-95
Subject: Stuff 4 CR
======================================================================
==== ==== -Begin Recipe Export- QBook version 1.00.14

