Title: Tasty Toppings For Pumpkin Pie
Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Vegetables, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
T A S T Y   T O P P I N G S   F O R   P U M P K I N   P I E S
=============================================================

Here are three excellent toppings for your pies. they are all
designed for a 9-inch pie and work on any of the preceding recipes.
Make sure your pan is deep rather than shallow (some of the foil pans
are too shallow) so there is room for the topping. S O U R C R E A M
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Absolutely my favorite, this reminds me of classic
cheesecake topping. A cinch to make, pour it over your pumpkin pie
just after baking. 3/4 c Sour Cream 2 tb Granulated Sugar Combine
sour cream and sugar; spread over hot, baked pie, leaving a 1/2-inch
border around edges uncovered. Return to oven for about 7 minutes
until just set. M E R I N G U E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ If your pie
fillingcalls for 3 or more eggs, just use the yolks and reserve the
whites to make this topping. This goes over your hot baked pie,
adding height and a great contrast in textures. 3 ea Egg Whites 1 ts
Lemon Juice 1/2 c  Granulated Sugar 1/2 ts Vanilla In bowl, beat egg
whites and lemon juice until frothy. Gradually add sugar, 1
tablespoon at a time, beating until stiff but not dry. Beat in
vanilla. Cover hot, baked pie with meringue, creating attractive
peaks. Return to 375F oven for about 8 minutes or until topping is
golden. S O U R C R E A M S P I D E R ' S W E B
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Create this attractive,
impressive design by incorporating it into the pie's unbaked filling
++ it cooks right in. 2 tb Sour Cream 2 tb Granulated Sugar Combine
sour cream and sugar; place in small pipingbag with large round tip
or plastic mustard/ketchup bottle. On unbaked pumpkin filling, pipe a
spiral, starting at outer edge and finishing at center. Using small
paring knife, draw shallow line through filling and topping from
outer edge to center; repeat at 7 evenly-spaced intervals around pie.
Between each of the 8 lines draw another line from center to outer
edge. This will create the spider web effect. Bake pie according to
recipe. Source: Tasty Toppings As Easy As Pie in Food column by
Marion Kane (food editor) in Toronto Star (4 October, 1995)
Transcribed By: Sam Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-04-95

