Title: Young Thailand's Pad Thai
Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Vegetables, Pasta/rice, Thai
Yield: 4 servings
==============
P A D  T H A I
You'll find this famous noodle stir-fry on every Thai menu in town,
but few do it as wellas Wandee Young. For extra extra color, Young
adds a little ketchup. You can spice it up at the end witha sprinkle
of chile flakes. 8 oz Rice Noodles (1/4-inch wide - 1/2 package) *
1/4 c Tamarind Paste (2 oz) * 1/4 c Warm Water 4 oz Chicken breast;
skinned; boned 1/3 c Peanuts; unsalted; roasted 4 oz Fried Tofu * 3
tb Fish Sauce * 2 tb Sugar 2 tb Lime Juice 1/2 c Vegetable Oil 1 ts
Garlic; chopped 8 lg Shrimps; shelled; deveined 2 ea Eggs 1 c Bean
Sprouts 1 c Green Onion stems; cut in 1-inch pieces Garnish: Red
Pepper strips, Coriander leaves, lime wedges * Avaialable in Asian
food stores 1. Soak the brittle noodles in plenty of cold water for
at least an hour. Combine the brown sour tamarind paste with warm
water in a small bowl and let soak at least 15 minutes. 2. Slice
chicken into 1/4 inch strips. For easy slicing freeze 15 to 20
minutes to harden slightly before slicing. Slice fried tofu into
3/4-inch cubes. Blend or process peanuts into coarse meal. Reserve.
3. Mash the tamarind and transfer the mud-like mixture to a strainer
set over a bowl. Mash and push with the back of a spoon to force
liquid into bowl. Scrape off paste from underside of strainer; you
should have about 5 tablespoons. Add to it the fish sauce, sugar and
lime jice. Mix thoroughly and reserve. Discard solids left in
strainer. 4. Heat oil in a wok or large fry pan until it's just about
to smoke. Add garlic and stir 30 seconds. Add chicken and stir-fry 1
minute. Add tofu and shrimps and stir-fry another minute. Break eggs
into wok and let them fry withoutbreaking for 1 to 2 minutes. 5.
While eggs cook, quickly drain the noodles, then add to wok. Give
them a quick fold, then stir-fry 1 minute from the bottom up. Add
reserved tamarind mixture. Continue stir-frying  1 to 2 minutes,
mixing everything together. The noodles will soften to half their
original volume. 6. Add about 2/3 of the reserved ground peanuts and
stir. Add about 2/3 of the bean sprouts and all the green onion
pieces. Stir-fry 30 seconds and take off heat. 7. Transfer noodles to
a serving dish and sprinkle with chiles, if desired. Top with
remaining ground peanuts, sprouts, some strips of red peppers and
fresh coriander leaves. Stick a couple of lime wedges on the side and
serve immediately. Serves 4. Source: "Thai Temptations" from
Lifestyle column by Cynthia David in Toronto Sun (27 September, 1995)
Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-04-95

