Title: EXPRESS SIDE DISHES
Categories: Side, Dish
Yield: 1 Servings
Info
Goat Cheese Crostini: Stir together 3 ounces goat cheese or cream
cheese, 1 tablespoon minced fresh tarragon or 1 teaspoon dried
tarragon, and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Spread evenly on 8
(3/4-inch-thick) toasted baguette slices, and broil 3 inches from
heat (with electric oven door partially open) 1 minute or until
thoroughly heated. Makes 4 servings.

Coleslaw With Apples: Stir together 4 cups coleslaw mix; 2 Granny
Smith apples, coarsely chopped; and 1/2 cup poppy seed dressing.
Makes 4 servings.

Zesty Greens and Tomatoes: Toss together 8 cups torn lettuce; 3 plum
tomatoes, sliced; and 1/3 cup vinaigrette. Makes 6 servings.

Garlic Green Beans: Steam 1 pound green beans; toss with 1 tablespoon
garlic spread. Makes 4 servings.

Roasted Vegetables: Combine 4 medium-size new potatoes, sliced; 1
small red bell pepper, quartered; 1 small green bell pepper,
quartered; and 2 small zucchini, cut into eighths, in a lightly
greased 15- x 10-inch jellyroll pan. Whisk together 2 tablespoons
balsamic vinegar, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 2 teaspoons dried Italian
seasoning, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/2 teaspoon pepper; drizzle over
vegetables. Bake at 400 B0 for 20 to 25 minutes or until browned.
Makes 6 servings.

Zesty Steamed Broccoli: Remove flowerets from 1 bunch fresh broccoli,
and steam. Toss broccoli with 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon Dijon
mustard, and 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Makes 4 servings.

