Title: FATFREE CHEESE (REFERENCE)
Categories: Digest, Dec.
Yield: 1 Servings
None
Well, there is Sap Sago cheese (aka Schbzieger cheese). It's a hard
herbed cheese from Switzerland made from skimmed milk. It's sold in
small foil covered cones.  This cheese has been around a long time --
long before the push for fatfree foods. Best use is to grate it,
toast it slightly and use as you would parmesian. I've seen this at
gourmet shops mostly, I'd bet it is available worldwide.

Two American cheeses worth noting are: Cabot 75% fat reduced cheddar
(with simplesse).  Best tasting low fat (2 grams fat per ounce)
cheddar I've found.  Also a new entrant: Vermont Farms Skinny
cheese-- a semi-hard farmers cheese made from skimmed milk (1.5 grams
fat per ounce. Very costly at $11/lb, but only cheese I would eat
plain. Note that although these have some fat, they are close to the
limit on how low a "pure" skimmed milk cheese can be (skim milk has
some fat -- condense the milk to cheese and the fat becomes more
concentrated).

There are lots and lots of fake fatfree cheeses in the US. IMHO, most
are terrible (but passable in combination dishes, pizzas, veggie
melts and the like).  Mozarella types seem most palatable ("cheddars"
are usually the mozarella-type + orange food coloring).

Posted by Michelle Dick (owner)<artemis> artemis@rahul.net to Fatfree
Digest [Volume 13 Issue 13]

FATFREE Recipe collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1994. Used
with permission. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

1.80รก

