Title: SAUDI ARABIAN PITA BREAD
Categories: Breads
Yield: 12 Servings
1 pk Active dry yeast
3 3/4 c  Flour
1/4 c  Shortening
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 1/4 c  Warm water
In large mixer bowl soften yeast in warm water. Add 2 cups flour,
shortening and salt. Beat at low speed of electric mixer for 1/2
minute, scraping bowl. Beat 3 minutes at high speed. Stir in as much
remaining flour as you can mix in with a spoon. Turn onto lightly
floured work surface. Knead in enough remaining flour to make a
moderately soft dough that is smoooth and elastic.(5 minutes) Cover,
let rest in a warm place about 15 minutes. Divide into 12 equal
partions. Roll each between floured hands into a very smooth ball.
Cover with a damp cloth, let rest 10 minutes. Using fingers, gently
flatten balls. Cover, let rest 10 minutes.(keep dough pieces covered
until ready to use.) On well floured surface lightly roll one piece
of dough at a time into a circle 7 inches in diameter, turning dough
over once. Do not stretch,puncture or crease dough(Work with enough
flour so dough does not stick) Place on baking sheet. Bake rounds, 2
at a time, in a 450 F oven about 3 minutes or until dough is puffed
and softly set. Turn over with a spatula, bake about 2 more mintes,
or until dough is light brown. Repeat with remaining dough, baking
one batch before rolling the next batch. To serve, slice bread
crosswise, fill pocket with desired filling Makes 12 rounds. From
Avon's International cookbook.

