Title: SCHMARRN
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 1 Servings
-========
Ingredients: 3 large eggs 1/4 cup milk (actually, a 1/3 cup might be
better) 1/4 cup  flour salt & pepper to taste. Maple Syrup to drown
Wisk (with wire wisk) all ingredience (starting with eggs) together
until very smooth (no lumps).  The mixture should have the
consistency of heavy cream.

Add about a table spoon each of butter/oil to a largish fry pan and
let melt/heat up.  About medium/high. If you don't have a large fry
pan you may have to make two batches.  By large, I mean about 10-12
inches across.

Here is where it gets hard to describe...

Pour mixture in all at once.  As the sides start to set, push the set
parts into the center so that more of the liquid pours into the
"canal" and has a chance to set also. Cut/Push "openings" into the
batter to expose pan surface and swish the liguid into that so it can
set. etc....

When most of it has set and there is only a very little liquid left
(it should still be a "whole" piece the size of the pan at this
point) I cut it into four and flip each section over. I then wait a
few seconds and then start cutting up everything so that it resembles
scrambled eggs. The goal is to have small, thick (1/4 inch?), bite
sized pieces when you're done. (The best tool for this is a stiff
spatula/egg flipper :-)

After its cut up, stir and cook it for a while.  Don't be afraid of
over cooking it.  I never have so far. You want it "browned"
somewhat. I eat it with maple surrup poured over top but have had it
with jam mixed in. Anything sweet would do, I imagine.

