Title: SOURDOUGH YOGURT STARTER
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Milk
1 c  Flour
2 tb Yogurt, plain
Heat milk until it reaches 100F (38C) on a thermometer. Remove from
heat and stir in yogurt. Port mixture into a clean plastic container,
cover tightly and let stand in a warm place for 18 to 24 hours. Be
sure to punch a small hole in container lid to allow gases to escape.
Mixture should resemble the consistency of yogurt. A curd shold form
and the mixture shold not flow readily when the container is slightly
tilted. If clear liquid rised to the top of mixture, simply stir it
back in. If liquid or starter turns pink, discard mixture and start
again.

After curd has formed, gradually stir 1 cup flour into the starter
until smoothly blended.  Cover tightly and let stand in a warm place
85F (30C) until mixture is full of bubbles and has a good sour smell,
approximately 2 to 5 days.  If clear liquid forms on top of mixture,
stir it back into starter.  Each time you use part of your starter
replenish it with equal amounts of warm milk 100F (38C) and flour.
Cover and let stand in a warm place several hours or overnight until
it is full of bubbles. Cover and store in refrigerator until needed.
Starter should always be at room temperature before using. Low-fat or
skim milk may be used in place of whole milk.  Always be consistent
in type of milk used.

Chipped out from the bottom of Sharon Stevens's Igloo ^^oo^^

Posted By waring@ima.infomail.com (Sam Waring) On rec.food.recipes or
rec.food.cooking

