Title: STIR-FRY BEEF & SNOW PEAS
Categories: Oriental, Beef
Yield: 4 Servings  1 lb Boneless sirloin steak 2 ts Cornstarch 1 tb Soy sauce 1/2 c
Peanut or vegetable oil 2 oz Cellophane noodles, uncooked 6 oz Frozen
snow pea pods, thawed And drained 2 tb Peanut or vegetable oil 2 sl
Fresh ginger (1" slices) 1 tb Peanut or vegetable oil 2 Carrots,
scraped and cut in 1/8 inch slices 15 oz Baby corn, drained 15 oz
Straw mushrooms,drained 1 ts Cornstarch 2 tb Soy sauce 2 tb Rice wine

Partially freeze steak; slice diagonally across grain into thin
strips. Combine 2 teaspoons cornstarch and 1 tablespoon soy sauce in
a medium bowl, stirring until smooth; stir in steak. Cover and
marinate in refrigerator 1-4 hours, stirring occasionally. Pour 1/2
cup oil around top of preheated wok or large skillet, coating sides;
heat at medium-high (375) for 2 minutes.  Add noodles, a small amount
at a time, andstir-fry 2-3 seconds or until noodles expand and turn
white. Remove noodles, and drain on paper towels; arrange in a ring
on a serving platter. Drain excess oil from wok. Add snow peas to
wok; stir-fry 2 minutes. Remove from wok, andarrange around edges of
noodles. Pour 2 tablespoons oil around top of preheated wok, coating
sides; heat for 2 minutes. Add steak and ginger; stir-fry 4-5 minutes
or until steak is no longer pink. Remove from wok, and set aside.
Pour 1 tablespoon oil around top of preheated wok, coating sides;
heat for 2 minutes.  Add carrot, corn, and mushrooms; stir-fry 3
minutes. Combine 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 2 tablespoons soy sauce and
wine; stir until smooth Add cornstarch mixture to carrot mixture;
stir fry 1 minute or until thickened.  Add steak mixture; stir-fry
until thoroughly heated. Spoon steak mixture into center of platter.
Submitted By KATHYH1929@AOL.COM On THU, 7 SEP 1995 144758 -0400

