Title: How To Cook Basmati Rice
Categories: Fatfree, Information, Rice
Yield: 1 servings
None
From: flaminio@ed8200.ped.pto.ford.com:

Somebody asked about cooking basmatti rice so it isn't sticky.  I use
a method that results in perfect rice every time. I cook it in a
non-stick pot on the stove, not in a rice cooker:

First, be sure to rinse the rice with cold water until most of the
starch is removed and the water pours off pretty clear. Then, add
enough water to cover the rice and boil for about 7 minutes. Test the
rice by biting into a few grains...it should be firm, but not
crunchy. Be sure not to over-cook the rice at this stage (it's better
to have it a little under-cooked).

Drain in a colander and rinse the rice with about 2-3 cups fresh
water.

Put the rice back in the pot and steam with the lid on for 30-40
mins. over low  heat.  The rice will develop a nice crunchy bottom
that's delicious (eat this first so it doesn't get soggy!)

I also have two variations that are great...these are classic Persian
dishes.

Cilantro / Green Onion Rice ==============================

After you drain the rice in the colander, add 1 bunch chopped
cilantro and 1 bunch chopped green onions (Chop them into *small*
pieces...I use the food processor). Mix it all together and return to
the pot to steam as described above. (These proportions are for about
6 cups cooked rice.)

Dill / Lima Bean Rice =======================

After you drain the rice in the colander, add 1 bunch chopped dill
and 1 box frozen baby lima beans. Mix it all together and return to
the pot to steam as described above. (Again, this is for about 6 cups
cooked rice.)

Hope you enjoy these! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .

From: Peter_Brooks <pb@hpocia.sj.hp.com>. I occasionally have some
disasters with rice, but usually manage to keep it from being too
sticky. Here's what works for me:

1) Wash the rice.  Especially true for just plain rice with glucose
coating.  When I want sweet sticky rice, I buy sweet sticky rice.  :-)

1A) Don't soak the rice.  Wash, swirl the rice/water/gunk and pour
out. If it's still grungy, do it again.  You don't want to get the
kernels any wetter than necessary.

2) Measure the water.  The white basmati rice that I use (maybe a
Lundberg bag; can't remember) said to use 2-1/4 cups of water for
every cup worth of rice.  This seems to be perfect for stovetop
cooking, and pretty close for my Hitachi cooker.  (I think that the
Hitachi would be happy with less water, but I haven't cooked basmati
in it recently.) Brown rices usually use more (maybe 3X for the
wonderful Luncberg Christmas rice, higher for wild 'rice'), while
white-bread rice is less (2X usually).

3A) I usually have better luck with a *heavy* glass/ceramic pan;
specifically, the bottom half of a Corning Visions double boiler.
They offer a similar pot as a 1.5(?)  quart saucepan, but with a
non-stick coating.  IMNHO, the high thermal mass of the Corning pot
does a better job at getting the heat spread out right.

For the corning, I get the rice/water boiling, cover, and turn down
to the lowest setting on my (gas) stove.  I don't lift the lid until
I'm pretty sure the rice is done.  The clear pot makes this easier.

3B)  With the rice cooker, I accept a little bit of stickiness, but
usually the top half of the rice is pretty well OK.

For what it's worth, "steamed" rice is just boiled. Pete

From: sidhu_d@caveman.vlsi.com (Daljeet Sidhu).

the secret is, the basmati rice you use, and the way you cook it. To
get good basmati rice, visit a neayby Indian grocery store and pick
the "indian" basmati rice. A good mid-grade basmati rice is Laxshmi
brand. It comes in 10-15 pound bags and is about $10.00 for the bag.
Basmati rice in the regular grocery stores are much more expensive,
and of a poorer quality than what you get in an Indian store.

I always cook rice in a pan, so I can't say how you can cook them in
the rice cooker. Different qualities, and brands of rice need
different amount of water to cook.  For Laxshmi brand you add 2 cups
of water to one cup of rice. Bring the water to hard boil on high
heat. Cover the pan with a tight lid, and let it simmer for about
10-12 minutes. At this point you will notice that the rice have
fluffed up, but they still have some water. Lift the lid from one
side to allow the steam to escape while you let it simmer for another
3-5 minutes or till you feel the rice are sufficiently dry. Do not
stir while cooking. Another way to get that dry look in rice is to
leave them in the oven for a few minutes after they are cooked, this
takes the extra moisture out of them. If you choose a brand other
than Laxshmi, experiment on the amount of water they need, it can be
half a cup less to an extra half a cup in one cup of rice.

Fatfree Digest [Volume 10 Issue 35], Sept. 15, 1994. Formatted by Sue
Smith, S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV

