Title: Hungarian Poppy Seed (Or Walnut) Roll (Makos Es Kalacs)
Categories: Bread, Holiday, Cake/cookie, Nuts/grains, European
Yield: 2 rolls
MMMMM------------------SERVINGS: MAKES 2 ROLLS-----------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: MOM-E'S OLD MAGAZINE---------------------
-1961
Sunset Magazine, December
MMMMM---------------------FROM: SALLIE KREBS--------------------------
If made with walnut filling, the Hungarian name is Dios es Kalacs.
Serve sliced as an accompaniment to coffee, or as dessert. 1/2 pkg
yeast (active dry or compressed) 1/4 cup lukewarm water 1/2 cup sugar
1/2 tsp salt 3/4 cup butter 1 egg yolk 1/2 cup milk 3 cup flour
(about) GLAZE: 1 whole egg 1 Tbsp milk FILLING: 1 1/2 cup golden
raisins warm water 2 cup crushed poppy seed, firmly packed OR- FOR
WALNUT ROLL: 1 1/2 cup ground walnuts, firmly packed 1 1/2 cup sugar
1 cup milk 2 lemons, grated peel of 1/2 tsp vanilla Blend yeast with
warm water and set aside. Mix sugar and salt in a large bowl; blend
in butter until thoroughly mixed. Stir in egg yolk, milk, and yeast
mixture. Sift flour, measure 2 1/2 cups, and add to butter and yeast
mixture. Mix thoroughly. Continue adding flour gradually until you
have a very soft (but not sticky) dough. Turn out on a floured board
and knead until dough is very smooth and elastic; takes about 10
minutes. Place in a greased bowl, cover with waxed paper and allow to
rest in a warm place for about 45 minutes. Divide dough in 2 equal
portions. On a lightly floured pastry cloth or tea towel, roll one
section of the dough to form a 15" square. Spread half of the filling
(recipe below) to within 1 inch of each edge. Gently lift one side of
the cloth and let dough roll, as for a jelly roll, to form a compact
loaf. Fold ends under to seal. Carefully lift loaf onto buttered
baking sheet, seam side down. Cover with waxed paper and let stand in
a warm place for about 45 minutes. Repeat procedure with other half
of the dough and filling. Beat whole egg with milk; brush over top
and sides of rolls. Bake in a moderate oven (350-F) for 30 minutes.
Reduce temperature to moderately slow (325-F) and continue baking for
10 more minutes, or until loaves are a golden brown. Let cool.
Decorate if you wish. Slice to serve. Wrap airtight and store in
refrigerator (will keep about 1 month), or freeze. Makes two 15"
rolls. To make the filling: First plump raisins by allowing to stand
in warm water for a few minutes; drain. In a saucepan, combine
raisins, poppy seeds (or walnuts), sugar, milk, and lemon peel. Cook
over low heat, stirring, until thickened and of spreading
consistency, about 20 minutes. (If mixture becomes too thick, add a
little more milk.) Stir in vanilla. Let cool slightly. Makes filling
for 2 rolls. To make filling for a single roll, or to make one of
each flavor, cut quantities in half. With these heavy fillings, the
raisins swell and steam when hot, sometimes causing the tender dough
to split in small cracks as the rolls bake.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-04-94

