Title: More Instructions On Retrieving From The Archive
Categories: Fatfree, Information
Yield: 1 servings
None
The archive is very picky with respect to syntax.

To get a recipe you must know two things:

1) the category 2) the name of the recipe. You can re-read Ari's
instructions on how to get these. For example, one of the categories
is "bread" and in the bread category, one the recipes is named
"tomato-bread". To get a copy of that recipe, you must send the
following exact command to the archive server:

get recipes/breads/tomato-bread

This must be exact, with no extraneous spaces and including the slash
marks.  The message must also have the word "archive" in the subject
heading.

You can get a listing of the *CATEGORIES* by sending the command:

ls recipes

Note that this will only return a listing of the categories, not the
recipe names.

To get a listing of recipes in a specific category, say "breads" send
the command:

ls recipes/breads

This will list the recipes.  Then to get a recipe you must include
both the category name and the recipe name in the following *exact*
format:

get recipes/category-name/recipe-name

You must fully specify the file in this format, including the slash
marks and without extra spaces.  You cannot have lines that have
other file information such as dxwrx-rx-r  or Aug 20  or any such
thing.

If you've double-checked your syntax and are sure it is correct, feel
free to send me a copy of your request  (good idea is to send it to
the archive AND cc: artemis@rahul.net) and I can look to see what is
wrong.

Good luck, I know this can be confusing for folks not familiar with
Unix file formating.

From: Michelle Dick <artemis>. Fatfree Digest [Volume 10 Issue 13]
Aug. 23, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com
using MMCONV

