Title: Nyc Vegetarian Restaurant Spots!
Categories: Fatfree, Information
Yield: 1 servings
None
Angelica Kitchen, 300 East 12th Street, (212) 228-2909 - Vegan
restaurant. At any time, 95% of its 260 ingredients are organic.
Excellent food.

Zen Palate, 2 locations: 400 W. 46th Street, (212) 582-1669 (more
formal) On 9th Avenue (less elegant, better dishes) - Vegetarian
restaurant. Ellegant. Very clean. Specialties include mock meats of
the asian variety, eg: pressed smoked tofu as ham. An emphasis on low
fat. Excellent fried dumplings. Reservations required. One location
has a noodle shop

Madras Woodland, 308 E. 49th Street (between 1st and 2nd Avenues),
(212) 759-2528 - Vegetarian South Indian. Excellent.

Madras Mahal, 104 Lexington Avenue (between 27th & 28th Streets),
(212) 684-4010 - Vegetarian South Indian. No additives. Breads are
whole wheat.

Metro Lifestyle Ministries, 116 East 60th Street, (212) 319-7850 -
Vegan. 7th Day Adventist restaurant.

Temple in the Village, in Greenwich Village - Cafateria-style.
Excellent macrobiotic & vegetarian food.

Vegetarian Paradise, 2 locations: West 4th off 6th Avenue (VP 2, and
VP to Go) One in Chinatown (VP) - Chinese vegan. Highly recommended.
Everything is excellent.

Vege Vege, on the corner of 35th and 3rd Streets (I think) - Chinese
Vegan? Wonderful! Lots of gluten. Fantastic dim-sum. The stuffed wild
mushroom dish is heavenly. They are very willing to adjust foods for
special diets.

Vegetarian Heaven, 57th off Columbus Circle - Chinese vegan.

House of Vegetarian, 68 Mott Street, (212) 226-6572 - Chinese
vegetarian?

3 Chefs Chinese Restaurant, 242 W. 56th Street, between 8th and
Broadway, (212) 586-3666

Whole Wheat & Wild Berries, on 10th (maybe 9th) Street (just east of
6th Avenue) - Macrobiotic.

Pumpkin Eater, upper West side

Mana, upper West side

Vegetarian-Friendly Restaurants:

Quantum Leap, 88 West 3rd Street, (212) 677-8050 - Japanese,
Macrobiotic, Middle Eastern, and Italian dishes. Some dishes offer a
choice of (rennetless) cheese or tofu, or of fried or steamed
ingredients.

Village East, 2 St Marks Place, (212) 533-9898 - Japanese,
Macrobiotic, Middle Eastern, and Italian dishes. Some dishes offer a
choice of (rennetless) cheese or tofu, or of fried or steamed
ingredients.

Good Health Cafe, 324 East 86th Street, (212) 439-9680 - Japanese,
Macrobiotic, Middle Eastern, and Italian dishes. Some dishes offer a
choice of (rennetless) cheese or tofu, or of fried or steamed
ingredients.

Afghan Kebab House, 764 9th Avenue (between 51st & 52nd). 307-1612 -
Not vegetaraian but has a vegetarian section of the menu.

Topaz, 127 W. 56th Street, (212) 957-8020 - Thai with a wide
assortment of vegetarian dishes. - 'Vegetarian' in Thai means
'substitute tofu for flesh'. Be sure to insist on no fish sauce or
other animal products.

Yaffa Cafe, on St. Marks (between Avenues A & B) - Good selection of
dinner salads and pastas.

Au Bon Pain - Somewhat upscale and urbane fast food chain. An
ingredients list and a nutritional analysis of all of its products is
available. Have vegetarian chili. The Garden Vegetable, Cream of
Broccoli, and Tomato Florentine soups are vegetarian, all the others,
including Split Pea and Minestrone, are not.

Posted by m-js0217@FRED.CS.NYU.EDU (Julia Stone) to the Fatfree Dig.
[Vol.12 Issue 2 11-2-94]. FATFREE Recipe collections copyrighted by
Michelle Dick 1994. Used with permission. Formatted by Sue Smith,
S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

