Title: Pavlova
Categories: Dessert, Down under, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Pavlova is a traditional Australian dessert. It is essentially a
meringue base, filled with fresh fruit salad and cream, and is served
with ice cream, jelly and any other sweet goop that appeals at the
time. There are many permutations, but the essence of the dish is the
meringue shell filled with cream and then fruit salad. Here the fruit
salad might consist of pineapple, passionfruit, strawberries, kiwi
fruit, melons, all diced and mixed. Jelly here is what I think Jello
is in the US. Ingredients. Shell. 5 egg whites 2 t cornflour 1 t malt
vinegar Filling. 1/2 pint cream 1 t orange flavoured liqueur  (I use
Grand Marnier) 1 lb of fresh fruit salad. Draw a 9" circle on a
baking sheet, preheat oven to to a cool 150oC or 300oF. Beat egg
whites until stiff. Add 4 oz of the sugar and continue beating for
one minute or until the mixture is stiff and glossy. Fold in
remaining sugar, cornflour, vanilla and vinegar. Spoon 1/3 of the
meringue mixture onto the baking sheet and spread out into the shape
of the circle. Put remainder of the mixture in a piping bag and pipe
around the edge of the circle. Bake for 1 1/2 hours (yes 90 minutes)
or until firm and very lightly browned. Allow to cool completely.
Whip the cream and fold in the sugar and the liqueur. Fill the
meringue case with the cream, and then pile the fruit salad in the
centre on top of it. 10 oz caster sugar 1/2 t vanilla essence 3 t
castor sugar

Posted by Mark Herron. Cooking Echo May 16th, 1993.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   01-03-95

