Title: The Seafood Lover's Kitchen - 2
Categories: Information, Seafood
Extras
Yield: 1 info
(nice, but not really necessary)

wok with steamer and utensils * great for steaming, stir-frying and
deep-frying; season before use fish poacher * usually stainless steel,
although copper ones exist; standard sizes are 18 inches and 24 inches
long; good for fish in the 4- to 8-lb. range includes rack making it
easy to maneuver fish; some have a lid which doubles as a broiling
pan; larger models straddle two burners oval frying pan or sautÂ‚ pan
* oval shape easily accommodates fillets and small whole fish
deep-fat fryer * many electric, counter-top varieties are available
but a large heavy saucepan can also be used oyster knife * stubby,
blunt blade slides between shells without puncturing meat; many have
metal guards where blade meets handle to protect hand from slipping
down blade lobster or crab cracker * cracker makes handy work of
cracking lobster claws and crab pieces, although hinged nutcrackers
also work well seafood picks * long slender handle with two short,
angled tines, help in removing meat from lobster and crab shells
seafood forks * short handled forks with two or three long tines for
eating steamed shellfish, oysters on the halfshell, steamed crab,
etc. parchment paper * use for wrapping fish and baking, but foil can
also be used specialty seafood steamers * one example is a large
steaming portion nested in a smaller portion which holds cooking
liquids during steaming; a spigot at the bottom makes easy work of
drawing off the liquid kitchen shears or scissors * choose very
durable shears with comfortable hand grip; good for trimming fish
(fins, gills, etc.) as well as many other kitchen uses scaler * many
styles available from utilitarian to dainty; a standard table knife
can also be used fish grilling basket * holds whole fish intact for
grilling, whole basket can be flipped to turn the fish ginger grater
* dramatically simplifies grating and mincing ginger; simply rub
ginger across tiny sharp teeth lemon zester, lemon stripper * good
for quick garnishes and adding a sprinkle of flavor skewers, metal or
bamboo * for grilling or broiling; metal lasts a lifetime; bamboo is
simple and disposable, but should be soaked in water for an hour
before using wide, perforated spatula * for lifting large pieces of
fish or whole fish from a pan, which can fall to pieces if not
carefully handled; two standard spatulas under either end also work

Eccentrics
(handy, good conversation pieces or gifts)

clam knife * similar in size to an oyster knife, but with a blunt,
broad blade with rounded rather than pointed end; pries open shells
crab or lobster mallet * hammer-like mallet can be made of aluminum,
wood or steel; for cracking crab and lobster claws; small standard
hammer can also be used shellfish shears * long, slender, with short
blades, one with tiny notches to help in snipping through tough crab
and lobster shells shrimp deveiner * very simple tool, aluminum tip
slides along back of shrimp removing both shell and vein; very
inexpensive and worth having if you cook shrimp often; paring knife
can be used but sharp blade risks cutting vein fish cook timer *
helps determine cooking time needed based on measurement of depth;
ruler and a good eye also work, using "10 minutes per inch" rule fish
or aspic mold * can be used for any kind of molded dish porcelain
fish bone or sauce dish * small dishes good for any number of uses;
many styles available scallop shells * actual shells make interesting
serving dishes, great for seafood gratins; also available in
porcelain replicas

Simply Seafood Fall 1993
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-13-95

