Title: Veggieburger In Quantity (Dried)
Categories: Fatfree, Beans, Vegetable, Rice, Burgers
Yield: 1 servings
1 c  Black beans
1 c  Lentils
1 c  Oatmeal
1 c  Dried corn
1 c  Whole wheat
1 c  Brown rice
1 c  White rice
Whir grains one at a time in blender until coarsely chopped.  mix
well and store in a covered container.

When you want a veggie burger scoop out needed amount <1 cup makes 4
good sized burgers>  whir 1 cup at a time in blender until reasonably
fine.

Heat 1 cup of water for each cup of mix until boiling add seasonings
<see below> add to dry mixture and stir until liquid is absorbed.
Drop by large spoonsfull into nonstick fry pan <or use pam>  it will
firm up as it cooks. Its gloppy to start with. That's ok. Turn when
brown on bottom. serve as pleases you.

For a more tender pancake like burger use a little more water.

beef, chicken, or ham flavored burgers.  Use 2 TBS <more or less to
taste> soup starter for each cup of water.  Serve on buns with
lettuce tomatoe, onion, ketchup, mustard or whatever strikes your
fancy.  For cheeseburgers use FF cheese.

Taco burgers add 1/2 pkt taco seasonings to each cup of water. serve
with salsa or stir fry to a chunky consistancy and make tacos

hawaiian burgers use pineapple juice in place of 1/2 the water add a
dash of soy sauce. Serve with pineapple rings.

sloppy joes  use 1/2 c. sloppy joe mix for each cup of water stir fry
to chuncky consistancy. Serve on whole wheat buns.

sweet and sour burgers.  Use soy sauce in place of 1/4 water.  Serve
with sweet and sour sauce. There are many FF versions on the market
or you can make your own.  I have a recipe somewhere I can look up if
anyone is interested.

From: Robbins <mrobbins@worf.infonet.net>. Fatfree Digest [Volume 10
Issue 6] Aug. 16, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV

