Title: Vetekrans (Swedish Coffee Bread Ring)
Categories: Nuts/grains, Bread, Herbs/spice, European, Holiday
Yield: 1 loaf
MMMMM--------------------------SERVINGS-------------------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, AP---------------------
Citruses, spices, and nuts assert their subtle flavors in the
fine-grained loaves. The breads can be prepared ahead of time,
frozen, and reheated for a delectable presentation on Easter morning.
In a small bowl proof 1 envelope active dry yeast in 1/4 cup lukewarm
water with 1 teaspoon sugar for 10 minutes. In a large bowl combine 1
stick or 1/2 cup butter, softened and cut into bits, 1/3 cup sugar, 1
teaspoon ground cardamom, and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Stir 3/4 cup scalded
milk into the butter mixture and let the mixture cool until it is
lukewarm. Stir in the yeast mixture and 2 eggs, lightly beaten.
Gradually beat in 3 cups flour, or enough to make a soft dough. Turn
the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead in about 1 1/4
cups more flour for 10 minutes, or until the dough is smooth and
satiny. Form the dough into a ball, put it into a buttered bowl,
turning it to coat it with the butter, and let it rise, covered,
until it is double in bulk. Punch down the dough and roll it out into
a 10- by 18-inch rectangle. Spread almond paste filling over the
dough, roll it up lengthwise, and put it on a buttered baking sheet
seam side down, pinching the ends together to form a ring. With a
pair of scissors snip the dough almost to the center of the ring at
1/2-inch intervals. Pull and twist each cut slice, laying it flat on
the baking sheet, to form a wreath. Let the ring rise, covered, in a
warm place for 30 minutes, or until it is double in bulk. Brush the
ring with 1 egg white, lightly beaten, sprinkle it with 3 tablespoons
sliced blanched almonds and 1 tablespoon sugar, and bake it in a
preheated moderately slow oven (325-F.) for 35 to 40 minutes, or
until it is golden. Transfer the ring to a rack and serve it warm.
ALMOND PASTE FILLING: In a bowl cream together an 8-ounce tin almond
paste and 1/2 stick or 1/4 cup butter, softened. Beat in 2 egg yolks
and 1/2 cup pulverized almond macaroons and combine the mixture well.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-26-94

