Title: CANADIAN SUMMER PUDDING
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 1 Servings
-=======================
-(Serves 8)
Based on a classic English dessert, this pudding tastes like summer
in a bowl.  For best color, use a mixture of berries.

Ingredients:

7 cups  fresh summer beerries (blueberries, raspberries, blackberries,
sliced strawberries) 1 cup granulated sugar 6 to 9 slices day old
French or italian bread from round loaf Creamy Rum Sauce In large
saucepan, combine berries and sugar.  Cook over medium heat stirring,
just until sugar has dissolved and berries start to release juices.
Reduce heat to low; simmer 10 mins or until fruit is tender. Set
aside. Line a 6 cup bowl with plastic wrap.  Cut crusts from bread
slices. Line base and sides of bowl with 3 or 4 slices, cutting to
fit where necessary. Spoon half of berries with some of their juice
into bowl. Top with layer of bread slices, pressing down on fruit.
Spoon any remaining juice evenly over bread; press down. Cover bowl
with plastic wrap. Place plate (slightly smaller in circumference
than top of bowl) on top. Place heavy weight, such as large can of
tomatoes on plate. Refrigerate at least 12 hours or up to 24 hrs,
until bread has asorbed juice andhas become uniformly colored. To
serve, remove weight, plate and plastic wrap from top. Invert serving
plate on top of bowl. Turn upside down; lift off bowl and remove
plastic wrap. cut pudding into wedges; serve with Creamy Rum Sauce.

Creamy Rum Sauce:

1 cup    lowfat yogurt 3 tblsp packed brown sugar 2 tblsp dark rum

In small bowl, combine yogurt, sugar and rum, stirring until smooth.
Makes 11/4 Cups. Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.40

