Title: A Bunch Of Bagel Recipes
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 servings
A BUNCH OF BAGEL RECIPES
========================
MMMMM-------------------TALLY-HO! IT'S RAREBIT------------------------
Slice Pumpernickel Bagel in half. Top each half with tomato
slice.Melt and heat 6 oz. cheddar cheese, dash of mustard, dash of
cayenne pepper, dash of Worchestershire Sauce and half a cup of ale.
Cook until smooth. Cover each bagel half with sauce. ITALIAN PIZZA
BAGEL: Slice Garlic Bagel in half. Spread each half with tomato
sauce,pepperoni slices, parmesan cheese. Top with shredded mozzarella
cheese. Place under broiler and heat until cheese is melted. A
RUSSIAN FAVORITE: Slice Onion Bagel in half and spread each half with
sour cream. Dot 1/2 teaspoon of caviar on top of sour cream (1 inch
apart). Between each dot of caviar, place a thin slice of hard boiled
egg. BAGELS BENEDICT: Slice Plain Bagel in half and toast. Place 1
slice of cooked Canadian bacon on each toasted half and 1 poached egg
on each bacon slice.Top with Hollandaise sauce and garnish with fresh
chopped parsley. BAGELS A LA QUEEN: Slice Sprouted Wheat Bagel in
half and toast. In a sauce pan, makeyour favorite white sauce. While
heating, stir in 1/2 cup diced, cooked chicken, 1/4 cup mushrooms,
1/8 cup green peppers, and adash of white wine. When sauce thickens,
pour over bagel halves. ALOHA!: Slice Cinnamon-Raisin Bagel in half.
Toast each half. Cover with cottage cheese and top with a pineapple
ring. THE RED, WHITE, AND BLUE: Blueberry Bagel in half. Top each
half with cream cheese and strawberry jam. TUNA MELT: Slice Whole
Wheat Bagel in half. Top each half with tuna, a tomate slice, and a
slice of American Cheese. Place under broiler and hear until cheese
is melted. THE TRADITIONAL ALL AMERICAN: Slice Plain Bagel in half
and spread with cream cheese. Top with smoked salmon and your choice
of sliced onions or tomatoes. THE OVER-STUFFED SUB: Slice
Pumpernickel Bagel in half. Spread Thousand Island dressing onone
half and Dijon Mustard on the other half. Take bottom bagel half and
place a slice of turkey, ham, roast beef, Swiss cheese, tomato, and
lettuce. Cover with top half of bagel. THE HAPPY CRAB: Slice Onion
Bagel in half. Mix together 1/2 cup crabmeat, 1/8 cup chopped onion,
1/8 cup chopped celery, 1/8 cup mayonnaise, 1/4 cuphredded cheddar
cheese, salt and peper, and spread mixture overeach half. Place under
broiler and heat until cheese melts. SCOTCH EGGS: Take 1 hard boiled
egg and cover with 1 ounce of pork sausage. Take 1 plain leftover
bagel and make into bread crumbs with salt andground sage. Dip
sausage-coated egg into raw egg and roll into bagel crumb mixture.
Fry 5 to 6 minutes in saucepan turning occasionally. Serve hot or
cold. Serve with your favorite bageland jam. WEST COAST HEALTH BAGEL:
Sprouted Wheat Bagel in half and spread with softened cream cheese.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   08-02-95

