Title: Canning Chutneys & Pickles
Categories: Can/preserv, Information, Relishes
Yield: 1 file
1    Textfile
Canning Chutneys and Pickles

Here are some general guidelines for simple, high-acid canning.  For
more detailed information, see the "Ball Blue Book Guide to Home
Canning, Freezing & Dehydration" ($4.95 plus $1 shipping and handling
from 1-800-859-2255, or at some stores where canning supplies are
sold).

** Use Wide Mouth canning jars and bottles.  You can reuse the jars
if they are not chipped, but the two-part metal lids must be new.

** Wash the jars on the hottest cycle in the dishwasher and keep them
there (hot, on the Dry cycle) until you fill them.  Bring them out
one at a time to fill.

** Wash the two-part metal lids in hot, soapy water.  They must be
heated before canning.  Heat lids for at least 10 minutes in a small
saucepan of simmering, not boiling, water.  Remove the lids as needed.

** Fill the hot jars with the chutney or pickles.  (If you do not
have a wide-mouth funnel, use a small measuring cup with a lip.)
Leave 1/4-inch of space at the top for expansion.  Wipe the jars
clean. Place the metal lid on the jar then screw on the metal ring.
Screw just until you get some resistance.

** Use a tall, large saucepan (or a stockpot) to process the jars
after they are filled.  Place a small rack in the bottom.  (If you
have a fold-up steamer rack, it does the job.)  Fill the pot 2/3 full
with water and bring to a boil.  Using tongs or a jar lifter,
carefully place the fruit-filled jars -- which should still be hot --
in the boiling water. If necessary add boiling water from a kettle to
ensure that the water covers the jars by 1 to 2 inches.  Cover with a
lid and boil for 10 minutes.

** Turn off the heat and remove the lid.  Then, carefully lift out
the jars and place them on a wooden board or towel to cool.  You will
hear popping sounds as the lids seal.  The cooling process will take
12 to 24 hours. Once cool, press each lid to ensure it has seated
well. If a lid pops after the contents have cooled, place in the
refrigerator and use within a couple of weeks.

** Chutneys and pickles are cooked.  But unlike traditional jams and
preserves, they require no thermometers or exact measurements.  The
sugar and vinegar also act as preservatives, so no special canning
equipment is needed.

**  Dallas Morning News -- Food section -- 19 July 1995  ** Posted by
The WEE Scot  --  Paul MacGregor
Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   08-17-95

