Title: The Creole And Cajun Cooking Of Louisianna
Categories: Information, Cajun/creol
Yield: 1 servings
THE CREOLE AND CAJUN
-COOKING OF LOUISIANA
============================
-=============
[by Malcolm Hebert]
NOTE: Here's a little article about the joys of our local Louisiana
cuisine, written by Malcolm Hebert, a cookbook author, the former
food and wine editor of the San Jose Mercury News, and the son of
Louisianians. (By the way, it's a venerable Louisiana name that's
pronounced <A-bear>, not <HEE-bert> ...) - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The best way to know the cooking of New Orleans is to be raised
there. My mother and father, who were born nearby, were proud of
their heritage. Every year my parents drove "south" to visit my
relatives, to feast on crabs, crawfish, gumbos, bisques, grits,
preserved figs, salt pork, black-eyed peas, smothered chicken,
oysters, shrimp, redfish, speckled trout, pain perdu, etc. From three
years old until today, my greatest food memories were of the cooking
of Louisiana. I consider myself fortunate to have Creole parents
raised in Cajun country so that I have been privileged to sample both
cuisines. Obviously, both the Creole and Cajuns take food as
seriously as they take anything on earth, more so than the Chinese.
The latter greet people with "Have you eaten well today?" Creoles and
Cajuns not only want to know what you have eaten, but what are you
planning to eat for the remainder of the day as well as for tomorrow?
Then they will tell you what they have eaten, will eat today and
what's on the menu for tomorrow. Creoles and Cajuns eat to live.
Their very existence is food, more food and still more food. They are
not greedy and certainly not selfish. They will gladly share a meal
with you, offering the choicest morsels for your pleasure. They have
adopted the Spanish "my house is your house" philosophy and are happy
to make sure your stomach is full. WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKING? Most Louisiana chroniclers claim the answer
is simple. Many Creoles were rich planters and their kitchens aspired
to grande cuisine. Their recipes came from France or Spain as did
their chefs. By using classic French techniques with local
foodstuffs, they created a whole new cuisine, Creole cooking. On the
other hand, the Acadians, pronounced <uh-CADE-ee-uns>, later
contracted to Cajun, were a tough people used to living under
strenuous conditions. They tended to serve strong country food
prepared from locally available ingredients. It was pungent, peppery
and practical since it was all cooked in a single pot. Thus Cajun
cuisine was born. While both cuisines are distinct, there are cross
references. Rice is a staple of both and Creole and Cajun chefs
usually start dish by taking a roux of oil and flour. In addition,
there are many common ingredients such as crab, river shrimp, lhrimp,
oysters, crawfish, freshwater and saltwater fish, plus squirrels,
wild turkeys, ducks, frogs, turtles, pork, homemade sausages, beans
of all kinds, tomatoes, okra, yams, pecans, oranges wines, liqueurs
and brandy. There is one rule that both the Creoles and Cajuns agree
upon and that is that there is no one rule and no one recipe when it
comes to matters of food. There are hundreds of different recipes for
gumbo, jambalaya, turtle soup and they are all right because no one
is wrong. Privately, they know that everything they cook is original,
because their kitchens are kitchens of "ad lib". They are
experimenting, creating, changing, always trying to make it taste
better. Because of the changes, it is difficult to get recipes. In
restaurants, few chefs write recipes down learning from each other in
the kitchen. In households, Mammas would verbally give the recipe to
their daughters, who as they cooked the dishes added their own
flavors and subtle changes. I was 8 years old when I got my first
cooking lesson from my grandmother's "a pinch of this or a pinch of
that" cooking school. She was making gumbo using on an old wood
burning stove. I asked her how much onion she used. Cupping her hands
she said, "About this much!" Trout Marguery, one of the most popular
fish dishes in New Orleans, is a good example of the "no written
recipe". The original dish was thought to have been created here, but
is believed to have been brought from France by Jean Galatoire, the
founder of Galatoire's restaurant. It is one of the restaurant's most
popular dishes, but the original recipe has never been published.
There are a dozen versions of Trout Marguery plus two schools of
thought concerning the sauce. One school claims the sauce is based on
bechamel sauce with fish stock and shrimp added; the second claims
the sauce is based on hollandaise with seafood stock and shrimp

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   08-12-95

