Title: Bittersweet Fudge Brownies
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Desserts
Yield: 36 servings
MMMMM-------------------KEYWORDS: SJK, WALNUTS------------------------
MAKES 36 BROWNIES
Source: Chocolate Desserts, from the editors of Food & Wine magazine
Supplement to Food & Wine magazine, 03/95 4 ounces unsweetened
chocolate, cut into chunks 1 1/2 sticks (6 ounces) unsalted butter 2
eggs 1 cup sugar 1 cup finely chopped walnuts 1/2 cup all-purpose
flour 1 teaspoon very strong, freshly brewed coffee 1 teaspoon
vanilla extract A few drops of almond extract 36 perfect walnut
halves 1. Preheat the oven to 325-F. Butter and flour a 9-inch square
cake pan. 2. In a double boiler, melt the chocolate and butter over
hot, not simmering, water and stir to blend thoroughly. Set aside to
cool. 3. In a large bowl, beat the eggs until light and frothy.
Gradually add the sugar and blend thoroughly. Add the cooled
chocolate mixture and chopped walnuts and stir well to blend. One
tablespoon at a time, add the flour, stirring after each addition.
Beat in the coffee and the vanilla and almond extracts. 4. Spoon the
batter into the prepared cake pan, beginning with the four corners.
When the batter has settled in the pan to a smooth level surface,
place the walnut halves in even rows, 6 across and 6 down. 5. Bake
for 25 to 30 minutes, or until the top has firmed. (The brownies will
be quite soft.) 6. Cut the brownies while still hot into 1 1/2-inch
squares (see Note) with a walnut in the center of each. When cooled,
store in an airtight container, with waxed paper between the layers.
They will be at their best for about 1 week. NOTE: If you'd like
larger brownies, use only 25 walnut halves in rows of 5 each way, and
cut 25 brownies instead of 36

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-01-95

