Title: Fatfree Caramel Corn
Categories: Fatfree
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 t  Vinegar
2 c  Light brown sugar
3/4 c  Water
Combine the above in a 2-qt. saucepan, bring to boil (stirring to
dissolve sugar completely).  Continue boiling and stirring until
syrup thickens and reaches the "hard-crack" stage -- consult the
candy-making section of any comprehensive cookbook for description
and candy-thermometer temperature. My method of determining readiness
is when the syrup "makes threads" when dropped off the tip of a spoon
OR when a drop allowed to fall into a cup of cool tap water forms a
ball instantly. It takes practice -- cook too long and the coating
will be granular; cook not long enough and it'll be sticky. When the
syrup reaches the desired stage, take it off the burner, IMMEDIATELY
stir in 1 teaspoon vanilla and 1/4 teaspoon baking soda (the soda
interacts with the vinegar's acidity and makes the syrup light and
sort of foamy).  Pour gradually over popped corn while stirring with
a long-handled spoon to distribute the coating (or have someone else
do the stirring or pouring).  This stuff is VERY HOT and will stick
to you and inflict deep burns so be careful! Homemade caramel corn is
much superior to anything you can buy in a package. Or at KarmelKorn,
for that matter. Once you know how to do it, you can play around with
other flavorings, like Cinnamon Oil (use sparingly!) or other
extracts.

Source: generic

Posted by "Mary Morrison" <MMORRISN@GSLAN.OFFSYS.UOKNOR.EDU> to the
Fatfree Digest [Volume 15 Issue 21] Feb. 21, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

