Title: Hi Williams' Caesar Salad
Categories: Cheese/eggs, Salads, Mom's, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: MY MOTHER'S RECIPE C---------------------
-70's
Newspapers from the 40's to
MMMMM--------------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS-------------------------
Hi Williams, famous photographer of food, demonstrates the making of
his favorite salad, a dish to appeal to masculine cooks as well as
masculine appetites. 1 clove garlic, quartered 1/4 cup salad oil 2
cups 1/4" bread cubes 1 large head each romaine and iceberg lettuce
(3 qt.) 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1/4 cup crumbled blue cheese
1/2 cup salad oil 1 tablesp. Worcestershire 3/4 teasp. salt 1/4
teasp. freshly ground black pepper 1 raw egg 2 lemons, halved When a
man makes a salad, you can pretty well predict three things about it-
1. It will be a green salad. 2. It will be a production number, with
guests as audience. 3. The chef will enlist his wife for backstage
details. And as a salad maker, Hi Williams is no exception. The night
before the party, his wife and partner, Alta Given, drops garlic into
1/4 cup oil; toasts bread cubes in shallow pan at 300Ã¸ F. about 20
min., or until golden; and, meanwhile, washes, then drains and stores
greens in crisper. The following evening when supper's about ready,
Hi puts his ingredients on a tray and takes them to the terrace. He
tears greens into generous bite-size pieces into his favorite big
wooden salad bowl; sprinkles the cheeses on top; then drizzles on the
1/2 cup oil, well combined with Worcestershire, salt, and pepper. He
tosses gently until every leaf glistens. Then he breaks a whole egg
onto the greens; with a fork, reams the juice from 2 lemons over all;
and tosses again until all specks of egg disappear. Hi pours the 1/1
cup oil (garlic removed) over bread cubes; gives them a quick toss;
and sprinkles them on top of greens. Now he gives his salad one last
quick tossing; then distributes 4 or 5 man-size servings to hungry
guests. P.S. When Alta or busy homemakers make this in kitchen, they
may substitute 1/4 cup canned or frozen lemon juice for lemons.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-04-95

