Title: Orlando, Florida Restaurants
Categories: Fatfree
Yield: 1 servings
1 ea Text reference
Maybe the general world IS getting healthier... veg. meals seemed
fairly available, and sometimes even VLF veg meals.  Morocco in Epcot
had great steamed veg. couscous, and the Polynesian Revue (with
advance request) prepared a large plate of steamed mixed vegetables
and baked potato that made a good meal (w/the fruit plate that was
everyone's appetizer).

I actually can't recommend the vegetarian place in Magic Kingdom
(Sleepy Hollow), since it seemed like their offerings were higher fat
(even the bagel chips they sell are fatty). Of course, my SAD husband
wouldn't have eaten there anyways.  It is a good parade watching spot
so we had a snack stop there so I could peek at the menu.

There was only one meal that I really got stuck eating something I
didn't want to.  And it wasn't hard bringing in snacks & drinks in a
backpack either.

Outside of Disneyworld, everyone (SAD and VLF and 4.75 yo) liked
Pebbles, which is in the Crossroads Shopping Center.  There's also a
supermarket there where I got my best Florida souvenier: Rotel
tomatoes!! ... my husband did ask why I was bringing back canned
tomatoes :-)

And Delta did amazingly well with our special meal requests; the
vegetarian meals were LF to VLF (including Guiltless Gourmet chips
w/salsa!).

Source: Original

Posted by aiko@epoch.com (Aiko Pinkoski) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 15 Issue 15] Feb. 15, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

