Title: Rec.food.cooking FAQ - 10 Of 13
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
++++++++++-
Masa harina
Masa is a paste made by soaking maize in lime and then grinding it
up. Masa harina is the flour made by drying and powdering masa. It is
used in mexican cooking for items such as corn tortillas. The literal
meaning is "dough flour". mirin ++++- sweetened sake (Japanese rice
wine) nutella ++++++- A thick smooth paste made from chocolate and
hazelnuts. Doesn't seem to be particularly easy/cheap to come by in
much of the US, but in many countries it is inexpensive and common.
Can be spread on plain biscuits (cookies), bread, toast, pancakes, or
just eaten from the jar. pavlova ++++++- A dessert (invented in NZ,
not Australia :-) The main ingredients are sugar and eggwhite. A
pavlova has crisp meringue outside and soft marshmallow inside, and
has approximately the dimensions of a deep dessert cake. Commonly
pavlovas are topped with whipped cream and fresh fruit, especially
kiwifruit, passion fruit or strawberries. periwinkles ++++++++++-
These small relatives of the whelk are "Littorina littorea".  Popular
in Europe but not in US. Northern (New England) "winkles" are a
different species from those found in the Gulf of Mexico poutine
++++++- French fries with cheese curds and gravy. rocky mountain
oysters ++++++++++++++++++++++ You don't want to know. You do want to
know? No, no, really, you don't. Oh, okay, okay. Lamb or cattle
testicles, breaded and deep fried (like oysters, I guess) sambal ulek
(sambal oelek) ++++++++++++++++++++++++++ This is from _The
Encyclopedia of Asian Cooking_, general ed. Jeni Wright, published in
the USA 1984 by Exeter Books. sambal ulek [Indonesia] Used as an
accompaniment and in cooking. Made by crushing fresh red chillis with
a little salt: Remove the seeds from the chillis, chop finely, then
crush with salt using a pestle and mortar. Three chillis will make
about 1 tablespoon sambal ulek. also available redy-prepared in small
jars from Oriental stores and some delicatessens. santen/coconut milk
++++++++++++++++++- This is from _The Encyclopedia of Asian Cooking_,
general ed. Jeni Wright, published in the USA 1984 by Exeter Books.
santen [Malaysia] see coconut milk. Coconut milk
[India/Malaysia/Thailand/Vietnam] Known as narial ka dooth in India,
santen in Indonesia and Malaysia.  Best made from fresh coconuts:
Grate the flesh of 1 coconut into a bowl, pour on 600 ml/1 pint/2-1/2
cups boiling water, then leave to stand for about 30 minutes. Squeeze
the flesh, then strain before using.  This quantitiy will make a
thick coconut milk, add more or less water as required.  Desiccated
(shredded) coconut can be used instead of fresh coconut: Use 350g/12
oz./4 cups to 600 ml/1 pint/2-1/2 cups boiling water.  Use freshly
made coconut milk within 24 hours. Canned coconut milk is also
available. scrapple ++++++++ Scrapple is boiled, ground leftover
pieces of pig, together with cornmeal and spices. Good scrapple,
particularly served with a spicy tomato catsup, is food for the gods.
Bad scrapple, especially with too little cornmeal, with too much
grease, or undercooked, is an abomination in the eyes of the horde.
scungilli ++++++++- Also a Mollusk Gastropod - "Buccinidae" - found
in more temperate waters than conch, with a darker meat and stronger
flavor, perhaps less "sweet". This is more properly known as "whelk".
These are generally removed from their shell and sold already steamed
and ready to eat.  The meat is kind of a circular meat, about 1 to 2
inches in diameter, perhaps 10 to 20 of these in a pound. I used to
buy these at markets in Long Island all the time. Price about same as
conch. seltzer ++++++- plain soda water tamari ++++++ Tamari is a
type of soy sauce, usually used in Japanese food.  You can easily
substitute with Chinese Light Soy or regular Japanese soy sauce.
tangelo ++++++- Citrus fruit cross of a tangerine and a pomelo.
Larger than a mandarin and a little smaller than an average-size
orange.  Skin colour is a bright tangerine and they mature during the
late mandarin season. Mandarins, Tangerines or Oranges may be used
instead. terasi ++++++ This is from _The Encyclopedia of Asian
Cooking_, general ed. Jeni Wright, published in the USA 1984 by
Exeter Books. terasi [Malaysia] Also known as balachan/blacan
(Malaysia), kapi (Thailand) and ngapi (Burma).  A kind of pungent
shrimp paste, used in very small quantities. Depending on the recipe
in which it is used, it can be crushed with spices to  make a paste
which is then sauteed in oil. Alternatively, it may be grilled
(broiled) or fried first, then added to other ingredients.

Submitted By DAVID KNIGHT   On   02-27-95

