Title: Rec.food.cooking FAQ - 1 Of 13
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Welcome to the rec.food.cooking FAQ list and conversion helper! The
primary purpose of this document is to help cooks from different
countries communicate with one another.  The problem is that
measurements and terms for food vary from country to country, even if
both countries speak English.

However, some confusion cannot be avoided simply by making this list.
You can help avoid the confusion by being as specific as possible.
Try not to use brand names unless you also mention the generic name
of the product. If you use terms like "a can" or "a box", give some
indication of how much the package contains, either in weight or
volume. A few handy hints: a kiwi is a bird, the little thing in your
grocery store is called a kiwi fruit. Whoever said "A pint's a pound
the world around" must have believed the US was on another planet.
And cast iron pans and bread machines can evoke some interesting
discussion! If you haven't already done so, now is as good a time as
any to read the guide to Net etiquette which is posted to
news.announce.newusers regularly. You should be familiar with
acronyms like FAQ, FTP and IMHO, as well as know about smileys,
followups and when to reply by email to postings. This FAQ is
currently posted to news.answers and rec.food.cooking. All posts to
news.answers are archived, and it is possible to retrieve the last
posted copy via anonymous FTP from rtfm.mit.edu as
/pub/usenet/rec.food.cooking. Those without FTP access should send
e-mail to mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu with "send
usenet/news.answers/finding-sources" in the body to find out how to
get archived news.answers posts by e-mail. This FAQ was mostly
written by Cindy Kandolf although the Amy Gale influence is slowly
growing, with numerous contributions by readers of rec.food.cooking.
Credits appear at the end. Each section begins with forty dashes
("-") on a line of their own, then the section number.  This should
make searching for a specific section easy. Author's disclaimer:
Cindy Kandolf maintained this list until recently. Many, probably
most, of the comments and references in the first person are hers. My
work to date has consisted only of minor formatting and setting up
registration with news.answers I'm not a super-cook, just someone who
lives in a country where ovens with celsius, fahrenheit and
gas-modulo markings seem equally common, where most of the recipe
books in the libraries seem to come from overseas and call for
ingredients that make your local grocer stare blankly at you in
quantities that mean most of us have about 8 different sets of
measuring equipment...(pfft, SI units or nothing, I say).  Any
questions you have that are not addressed here will surely have many
people on rec.food.cooking who are able to answer them - try it, and
see. Comments, corrections and changes to : cooking-FAQ@vuw.ac.nz
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ List of Answers 1 Food Terms
1.1 Alphabetized List - different name, same food 2 Substitutions and
Equivalents 2.1 Flours 2.2 Leavening Agents 2.3 Dairy Products 2.4
Starches 2.5 Sugar and other sweeteners 2.6 Fats 2.7 Chocolates 2.8
Buttermilk/Cultured Milk 3 US/UK/metric conversions 3.1 Oven
temperatures 3.2 Food equivalences 3.2. Flours 3.2.2 Cereals 3.2.3
Sugars 3.2.4  Fats and Cheeses 3.2.5 Vegetables and Fruit 3.2.6 Dried
Fruit and Nuts 3.2.7 Preserves 3.3 American liquid measures 3.4
British liquid measures 3.5 British short cuts 3.6 General Conversion
Tables 3.6.1 International Liquid Measurements 3.6.2 Weight 3.6.3 US
Liquid Measurements 3.6.4  Miscellaneous 3.7 Some Australian
Conversions 3.7.1 Metric Cups 3.7.2  Metric Spoons 3.8 Catties 3.9
Authorities 4 Food newsgroups and mailing lists 4.1 rec.food.cooking
4.2 rec.food.recipes 4.3 rec.food.drink, rec.food.restaurants 4.4
mailing
rec.food.veg 4.5 rec.food.preservation 4.6 also... 4.7
lists 5 This has come up once too often 5.1 The $250 cookie recipe
5.2 Requests for "authentic" recipes 6 What on Earth is...? A
glossary of ingredients 7 Distilled Wisdom on Equipment 7.1 Woks 8
The rec.food.cooking Food Exchange 9 Archives 9.1 Archives from
rec.food.recipes 9.2 Other cooking/food sites 10 The rec.food.cooking
Acknowledgements
album 11

Submitted By DAVID KNIGHT   On   02-27-95

