Title: Rigatoni all'Amatriciana (Rigatoni with Bacon and Ham)
Categories: Italian, Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
No Ingredients Found
Source: The Harry's Bar Cookbook; Arrigo Cipriani; "Recipes and
Reminiscences from the World-Famous Venice Bar and Restaurant";
@1991; ISBN 0-553-07030-4

Amatrice is a very small region, tucked between Lazio and Abruzzi,
which is where all the best Italian chefs come from. Amatrice is also
the feminine word for lover, and the dish is good enough for a woman
to make for her lover. There are two schools of thought on whether to
add tomatoes to this recipe. At Harry's Bar we always use a little
bit of tomato sauce. Rigatoni, a hollow, curved spaghetti with
ridges, goes particularly well with this flavorful sauce. SERVES 6 AS
A FIRST COURSE OR 4 AS A MAIN COURSE 1/4 cup olive oil (60 ml) 3
medium onions, halved and thinly sliced 1 pound lean bacon, cut into
1/2-inch (1 1/2 cm) pieces (450g) 1 bay leaf 6 slices (3 to 4 ounces)
smoked boiled ham cut into julienne strips (100 to 110 g) 1/2 cup dry
white wine (125 ml) 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon hot red
pepper flakes 1/2 cup tomato sauce or canned crushed tomatoes (125
ml) salt freshly ground pepper 1/2 cup chicken stock (page 69), if
needed (125 ml) 1 pound rigatoni or mezz' rigatoni (medium-size) or
spaghetti (450 g,) or 1 recipe tagliardi (page 105) 1 tablespoon
unsalted butter, softened (15 g) 1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan
cheese (65 g) plus extra to pass at the table Heat the oil in a
skillet over medium heat. Add the onions and cook until golden,
stirring frequently about 20 minutes. Meanwhile, cook the bacon with
a bay leaf in a separate large skillet over medium- low heat, turning
it until it is browned but not crisp++about 15 minutes. Pour off the
fat, add the ham, and cook for another minute. Stir in the onions and
cook for another 2 or three minutes. Add the wine and stir well.
Reduce the heat to low and add the oregano, pepper flakes, tomato
sauce, salt, and pepper. Cook for about 10 minutes, then cover the
skillet and keep warm over low heat while you cook the pasta. If the
sauce becomes too dry, stir in a little chicken stock. Bring a large
pot of water to a boil, add salt, and cook the pasta for about 10 to
13 minutes for rigatoni, 8 minutes for spaghetti, and 4 minutes for
tagliardi, or until al dente. Drain well in a colander. Add the
pasta, the softened butter, and the Parmesan cheese to the sauce and
toss well. Transfer to a serving platter and pass around a small bowl
of grated Parmesan cheese. Wine notes: Italian: Chianti- Monsanto
Riserva American: Cabernet Sauvignon- B.V. Rutherford

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-11-95

