Title: Table Decorating Ideas 1
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings  SUMMER 1 can also be used for wedding anniversary

Tablecloth or placemats: Pale Blue or white lace Napkins: White or
White with Blue embroidery Dinnerware: Pure white /or crystal, can
use cobalt blue serving pieces Flatware: Silver Centrepiece: Fish
bowl filled with ice cubes, set on chrome tray or mirror
Goblets/glasses filled with crystal marble & white votive candles
Silver or crystal candlesticks with white tapers Crystal bowl filled
with white roses (wedding anniversary) Crystal bowl filled with water
& flower (ie dahlia) floating Silver or crystal vase filled with lily
of the valley

SUMMER 2 Tablecloth: Green & white print/ or print with ferns/ or
green tablecloth with white eyelet on top Napkins: White Dinnerware:
Green / or white with green accents Flatware: Silver Centrepiece:
dark green or white candlesticks with green or white tapers potted
fern

NAUTICAL Tablecloth: nautical fabric with sailboats, anchors etc
Napkins: White, folded into boats, placed at each place setting
Dinnerware: White/ Cobalt blue/ Red or a mixture Flatware: Silver
Centrepiece: Child's boat /or boat in a bottle

SEPTEMBER-BACK TO SCHOOL Tablecloth: Green and red gingham check /or
washable plaid blanket Napkins: Red or green Dinnerware: Green
Flatware: Gold Centrepiece: bowl filled with red apples pyramid of
toy alphabet blocks

FALL / THANKSGIVING Tablecloth: Burgendy /or Cream, Beige/ or Dark
Green Napkins:  contrasting fall colour Flatware: Gold Dinnerware:
Beige/ or Green/ or Amber Centrepiece: Grapevine wreath with
pinecones wired on it pile of apples on pinecone wreath, tied with
gold ribbon bowl of seasonal fruit/vegetables/cranberries soup tureen
filled with large bouquet of chrystanthemums in autumn colours brass
candlesticks with tapers in autumn colours red tapers stuck in red
apples duck decoy squash halves, scooped out and lightly oiled. Fill
with marigolds or asters or nuts scatter brightly coloured pressed
autumn leaves on tablecloth

HALLOWE'EN Tablecloth: Orange /or black /or black & white check
Napkins : Orange /or: black Dinnerware: Black/ or Orange Flatware:
Gold Centrepiece: Jack O' Lantern pile of very small pumpkins (can
use magic marker for faces) bowl of oranges, studded with cloves

CHRISTMAS 1- TABLECLOTH: Red or Green/ or White Napkins: Red or Green
/ White Dinnerware: Orange /or Black Flatware
: gold Centrepiece: basket filled with small packages wrapped in red &
green, with a ribbon leading to each guest's place crystal bowl of
Christmas balls glass jar of peppermints, tied with gold ribbon
miniature tart tins holding red votive candles dried flower
arrangement with strand of tiny white lights

CHRISTMAS 2 - less traditional Tablecloth: Pale pink /or Cream
Napkins: same Dinnerware; Pink Flatware
: gold Centrepiece: pink and cream poinsetta

