Title: Tunisian Couscous With Greens
Categories: Nuts/grains, Pasta, African
Yield: 8 servings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~
TUNISIAN COUSCOUS WITH
-GREENS
"I am a shameless recipe mooch (one has to be in my job). I got wind
of this one at the Association of Food Journalists conference in
Atlanta last fall, when Nancy McKeown, food editor at the Washington
Post, told me that she spent hours making this dish - with devine
results. We tried the reipe and herby confirm that she was right on
both counts." 1/2 lb Fresh Dill (250 g/about 1 large bunch) <OR>
Fennel Leaves <OR> combination of both. 1/2 lb Fresh Parsley (250
g/about 3 bunches) 1/2 c Celery Leaves; tightly packed 1/2 c Carrot
Tops; tightly packed 1/2 lb Combination Green Onions and Leeks (both
white part only) 1/2 c Olive Oil 1 c Onion (about 1 large); chopped 3
tb Tomato Paste 3 lg Garlic Cloves (about 2 tb); peeled; crushed 6 ea
Whole Garlic Cloves; peeled 3 1/2 ts Paprika 2 ts Salt (or more to
taste) 1 ts Coriander Seed; ground 1 ts Caraway Seed; ground 1/2 ts
Hot Red Pepper Flakes 2 1/2 c Quick Cooking Couscous 1 sm Hot Green
Chili Pepper (about 1 1/2 ts); seeded; minced 1 ea Sweet Red Pepper;
seeded; cut into 6 slices Wash dill, fennel (if using), parsley,
selery leaves and carrot tops under cold running water. Drain;
coarsely chop. Wash green onions and leeks well; chop. Place greens,
green onions and leeks in fine-holed metal colander. Set in large
saucepan set over boiling water. Cover, reduce heat and steam 30
minutes. Remove from heat. When cool enough to handle, squeeze out
excess moisture with your hands; set aside. Heat oil in a large
skillet over medium heat. Add onion; cook 3 minutes to soften. Add
tomato paste; cook, stirring until paste glistens, about 3 minutes.
Add 3 cloves crushed garlic, paprika, salt, coriander, caraway and
red pepper flakes; cook until well blended. Add 1 cup water. Cover,
reduce heat and cook 15 minute, stirring occasionally. Stir in
steamed green, leeks and green onions; mix well. Stir in chili
pepper, red pepper and 6 whole garlic cloves. Reduce heat to low,
cover and cook, stirring occasionally, 20 minutes. Meanwhile, in
large saucepan, bring 3 1/4 cups water to boil. Add couscous and
stir. Return to boil, cover and reduce heat and simmer just until
water is absorbed, about 1 minute. Remove from the heat. Let stand 5
minutes. Fluff with fork. Remove garlic cloves and red pepper slices
from greens mixture; set aside. Gently stir cuscous into greens
mixture until combined. Turn out on to serving plate; garnish with
red pepper slices and whole garlic cloves just before serving. Makes
8 servings. From Article: Slow But Not Easy Food Is Worth The Wait
Written By: Marion Kane (Food Editor) Toronto Star 8 March, 1995

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   03-11-95

